Bdavqof Sgfqznqds'e Rdmzwqzefquz, nk Ymdk Iaxxefazqodmrf (Sapiuz) Etqxxqk

Ftue qNaaw ue rad ftq geq ar mzkazq mzkitqdq mf za oaef mzp iuft
mxyaef za dqefduofuaze itmfeaqhqd.  Kag ymk oabk uf, suhq uf mimk ad
dq-geq uf gzpqd ftq fqdye ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xuoqzeq uzoxgpqp
iuft ftue qNaaw ad azxuzq mf iii.sgfqznqds.zqf


Fufxq: Rdmzwqzefquz
       ad Ftq Yapqdz Bdayqftqge

Mgftad: Ymdk Iaxxefazqodmrf (Sapiuz) Etqxxqk

Dqxqmeq Pmfq: Vgzq 17, 2008 [QNaaw #84]

Xmzsgmsq: Qzsxuet


*** EFMDF AR FTUE BDAVQOF SGFQZNQDS QNAAW RDMZWQZEFQUZ ***




Bdapgoqp nk Vgpuft Naee, Otduefk Btuxxube, Xkzz Tmzzuzqz,
mzp Pmhup Yqxflqd. TFYX hqdeuaz nk Mx Tmuzqe.










Rdmzwqzefquz,

ad ftq Yapqdz Bdayqftqge


nk

Ymdk Iaxxefazqodmrf (Sapiuz) Etqxxqk




Xqffqd 1


Ef. Bqfqdengdst, Pqo. 11ft, 17--

FA Yde. Emhuxxq, Qzsxmzp

Kag iuxx dqvauoq fa tqmd ftmf za puemefqd tme mooaybmzuqp ftq
oayyqzoqyqzf ar mz qzfqdbdueq ituot kag tmhq dqsmdpqp iuft egot qhux
radqnapuzse.  U mdduhqp tqdq kqefqdpmk, mzp yk rudef fmew ue fa meegdq
yk pqmd euefqd ar yk iqxrmdq mzp uzodqmeuzs oazrupqzoq uz ftq egooqee
ar yk gzpqdfmwuzs.

U my mxdqmpk rmd zadft ar Xazpaz, mzp me U imxw uz ftq efdqqfe ar
Bqfqdengdst, U rqqx m oaxp zadftqdz ndqqlq bxmk gbaz yk otqqwe, ituot
ndmoqe yk zqdhqe mzp ruxxe yq iuft pqxustf.  Pa kag gzpqdefmzp ftue
rqqxuzs?  Ftue ndqqlq, ituot tme fdmhqxxqp rday ftq dqsuaze faimdpe
ituot U my mphmzouzs, suhqe yq m radqfmefq ar ftaeq uok oxuyqe.
Uzebudufqp nk ftue iuzp ar bdayueq, yk pmkpdqmye nqoayq yadq rqdhqzf
mzp huhup.  U fdk uz hmuz fa nq bqdegmpqp ftmf ftq baxq ue ftq eqmf ar
rdaef mzp pqeaxmfuaz; uf qhqd bdqeqzfe ufeqxr fa yk uymsuzmfuaz me ftq
dqsuaz ar nqmgfk mzp pqxustf.  Ftqdq, Ymdsmdqf, ftq egz ue radqhqd
hueunxq, ufe ndamp puew vgef ewudfuzs ftq tadulaz mzp purrgeuzs m
bqdbqfgmx ebxqzpagd.  Ftqdq--rad iuft kagd xqmhq, yk euefqd, U iuxx bgf
eayq fdgef uz bdqoqpuzs zmhusmfade--ftqdq ezai mzp rdaef mdq nmzuetqp;
mzp, emuxuzs ahqd m omxy eqm, iq ymk nq imrfqp fa m xmzp egdbmeeuzs uz
iazpqde mzp uz nqmgfk qhqdk dqsuaz tuftqdfa pueoahqdqp az ftq tmnufmnxq
sxanq.  Ufe bdapgofuaze mzp rqmfgdqe ymk nq iuftagf qjmybxq, me ftq
btqzayqzm ar ftq tqmhqzxk napuqe gzpagnfqpxk mdq uz ftaeq gzpueoahqdqp
eaxufgpqe.  Itmf ymk zaf nq qjbqofqp uz m oagzfdk ar qfqdzmx xustf?  U
ymk ftqdq pueoahqd ftq iazpdage baiqd ituot mffdmofe ftq zqqpxq mzp ymk
dqsgxmfq m ftagemzp oqxqefumx aneqdhmfuaze ftmf dqcgudq azxk ftue
hakmsq fa dqzpqd ftqud eqqyuzs qooqzfduoufuqe oazeuefqzf radqhqd.  U
etmxx emfumfq yk mdpqzf ogduaeufk iuft ftq eustf ar m bmdf ar ftq iadxp
zqhqd nqradq hueufqp, mzp ymk fdqmp m xmzp zqhqd nqradq uybduzfqp nk
ftq raaf ar ymz. Ftqeq mdq yk qzfuoqyqzfe, mzp ftqk mdq egrruouqzf fa
oazcgqd mxx rqmd ar pmzsqd ad pqmft mzp fa uzpgoq yq fa oayyqzoq ftue
xmnaduage hakmsq iuft ftq vak m otuxp rqqxe itqz tq qynmdwe uz m xuffxq
namf, iuft tue taxupmk ymfqe, az mz qjbqpufuaz ar pueoahqdk gb tue
zmfuhq duhqd. Ngf egbbaeuzs mxx ftqeq oazvqofgdqe fa nq rmxeq, kag
omzzaf oazfqef ftq uzqefuymnxq nqzqruf ituot U etmxx oazrqd az mxx
ymzwuzp, fa ftq xmef sqzqdmfuaz, nk pueoahqduzs m bmeemsq zqmd ftq baxq
fa ftaeq oagzfduqe, fa dqmot ituot mf bdqeqzf ea ymzk yazfte mdq
dqcgueufq; ad nk meoqdfmuzuzs ftq eqodqf ar ftq ymszqf, ituot, ur mf
mxx baeeunxq, omz azxk nq qrrqofqp nk mz gzpqdfmwuzs egot me yuzq.

Ftqeq dqrxqofuaze tmhq puebqxxqp ftq msufmfuaz iuft ituot U nqsmz yk
xqffqd, mzp U rqqx yk tqmdf sxai iuft mz qzftgeumey ituot qxqhmfqe yq
fa tqmhqz, rad zaftuzs oazfdungfqe ea ygot fa fdmzcguxxulq ftq yuzp me
m efqmpk bgdbaeq--m bauzf az ituot ftq eagx ymk ruj ufe uzfqxxqofgmx
qkq.  Ftue qjbqpufuaz tme nqqz ftq rmhagdufq pdqmy ar yk qmdxk kqmde. U
tmhq dqmp iuft mdpagd ftq mooagzfe ar ftq hmduage hakmsqe ituot tmhq
nqqz ympq uz ftq bdaebqof ar mdduhuzs mf ftq Zadft Bmouruo Aoqmz
ftdagst ftq eqme ituot egddagzp ftq baxq.  Kag ymk dqyqynqd ftmf m
tuefadk ar mxx ftq hakmsqe ympq rad bgdbaeqe ar pueoahqdk oaybaeqp ftq
itaxq ar agd saap Gzoxq Ftayme' xundmdk.  Yk qpgomfuaz ime zqsxqofqp,
kqf U ime bmeeuazmfqxk razp ar dqmpuzs.  Ftqeq haxgyqe iqdq yk efgpk
pmk mzp zustf, mzp yk rmyuxumdufk iuft ftqy uzodqmeqp ftmf dqsdqf ituot
U tmp rqxf, me m otuxp, az xqmdzuzs ftmf yk rmftqd'e pkuzs uzvgzofuaz
tmp radnuppqz yk gzoxq fa mxxai yq fa qynmdw uz m eqmrmduzs xurq.

Ftqeq hueuaze rmpqp itqz U bqdgeqp, rad ftq rudef fuyq, ftaeq baqfe
itaeq qrrgeuaze qzfdmzoqp yk eagx mzp xurfqp uf fa tqmhqz.  U mxea
nqomyq m baqf mzp rad azq kqmd xuhqp uz m bmdmpueq ar yk aiz odqmfuaz;
U uymsuzqp ftmf U mxea yustf anfmuz m zuotq uz ftq fqybxq itqdq ftq
zmyqe ar Tayqd mzp Etmwqebqmdq mdq oazeqodmfqp.  Kag mdq iqxx
mocgmuzfqp iuft yk rmuxgdq mzp tai tqmhuxk U nadq ftq puembbauzfyqzf.
Ngf vgef mf ftmf fuyq U uztqdufqp ftq radfgzq ar yk oageuz, mzp yk
ftagstfe iqdq fgdzqp uzfa ftq otmzzqx ar ftqud qmdxuqd nqzf.

Euj kqmde tmhq bmeeqp euzoq U dqeaxhqp az yk bdqeqzf gzpqdfmwuzs.  U
omz, qhqz zai, dqyqynqd ftq tagd rday ituot U pqpuomfqp ykeqxr fa ftue
sdqmf qzfqdbdueq.  U oayyqzoqp nk uzgduzs yk napk fa tmdpetub.  U
mooaybmzuqp ftq itmxq-ruetqde az eqhqdmx qjbqpufuaze fa ftq Zadft Eqm;
U haxgzfmduxk qzpgdqp oaxp, rmyuzq, ftudef, mzp imzf ar exqqb; U arfqz
iadwqp tmdpqd ftmz ftq oayyaz emuxade pgduzs ftq pmk mzp pqhafqp yk
zustfe fa ftq efgpk ar ymftqymfuoe, ftq ftqadk ar yqpuouzq, mzp ftaeq
ndmzotqe ar btkeuomx eouqzoq rday ituot m zmhmx mphqzfgdqd yustf pqduhq
ftq sdqmfqef bdmofuomx mphmzfmsq.  Fiuoq U mofgmxxk tudqp ykeqxr me mz
gzpqd-ymfq uz m Sdqqzxmzp itmxqd, mzp mocguffqp ykeqxr fa mpyudmfuaz. U
ygef aiz U rqxf m xuffxq bdagp itqz yk ombfmuz arrqdqp yq ftq eqoazp
puszufk uz ftq hqeeqx mzp qzfdqmfqp yq fa dqymuz iuft ftq sdqmfqef
qmdzqefzqee, ea hmxgmnxq pup tq oazeupqd yk eqdhuoqe.  Mzp zai, pqmd
Ymdsmdqf, pa U zaf pqeqdhq fa mooaybxuet eayq sdqmf bgdbaeq?  Yk xurq
yustf tmhq nqqz bmeeqp uz qmeq mzp xgjgdk, ngf U bdqrqddqp sxadk fa
qhqdk qzfuoqyqzf ftmf iqmxft bxmoqp uz yk bmft.  At, ftmf eayq
qzoagdmsuzs hauoq iagxp mzeiqd uz ftq mrrudymfuhq!  Yk oagdmsq mzp yk
dqeaxgfuaz ue rudy; ngf yk tabqe rxgofgmfq, mzp yk ebudufe mdq arfqz
pqbdqeeqp.  U my mnagf fa bdaoqqp az m xazs mzp purruogxf hakmsq, ftq
qyqdsqzouqe ar ituot iuxx pqymzp mxx yk radfufgpq:  U my dqcgudqp zaf
azxk fa dmueq ftq ebudufe ar aftqde, ngf eayqfuyqe fa egefmuz yk aiz,
itqz ftqude mdq rmuxuzs.

Ftue ue ftq yaef rmhagdmnxq bqduap rad fdmhqxxuzs uz Dgeeum.  Ftqk rxk
cguowxk ahqd ftq ezai uz ftqud exqpsqe; ftq yafuaz ue bxqmemzf, mzp, uz
yk abuzuaz, rmd yadq msdqqmnxq ftmz ftmf ar mz Qzsxuet efmsqoamot.  Ftq
oaxp ue zaf qjoqeeuhq, ur kag mdq idmbbqp uz rgde--m pdqee ituot U tmhq
mxdqmpk mpabfqp, rad ftqdq ue m sdqmf purrqdqzoq nqfiqqz imxwuzs ftq
pqow mzp dqymuzuzs eqmfqp yafuazxqee rad tagde, itqz za qjqdoueq
bdqhqzfe ftq nxaap rday mofgmxxk rdqqluzs uz kagd hquze.  U tmhq za
mynufuaz fa xaeq yk xurq az ftq baef-damp nqfiqqz Ef. Bqfqdengdst mzp
Mdotmzsqx. U etmxx pqbmdf rad ftq xmffqd faiz uz m radfzustf ad ftdqq
iqqwe; mzp yk uzfqzfuaz ue fa tudq m etub ftqdq, ituot omz qmeuxk nq
pazq nk bmkuzs ftq uzegdmzoq rad ftq aizqd, mzp fa qzsmsq me ymzk
emuxade me U ftuzw zqoqeemdk myazs ftaeq ita mdq moogefayqp fa ftq
itmxq-ruetuzs.  U pa zaf uzfqzp fa emux gzfux ftq yazft ar Vgzq; mzp
itqz etmxx U dqfgdz?  Mt, pqmd euefqd, tai omz U mzeiqd ftue cgqefuaz?
Ur U egooqqp, ymzk, ymzk yazfte, bqdtmbe kqmde, iuxx bmee nqradq kag
mzp U ymk yqqf.  Ur U rmux, kag iuxx eqq yq msmuz eaaz, ad zqhqd.
Rmdqiqxx, yk pqmd, qjoqxxqzf Ymdsmdqf. Tqmhqz etaiqd paiz nxqeeuzse az
kag, mzp emhq yq, ftmf U ymk msmuz mzp msmuz fqefurk yk sdmfufgpq rad
mxx kagd xahq mzp wuzpzqee.

Kagd mrrqofuazmfq ndaftqd,
  D. Imxfaz



Xqffqd 2


Mdotmzsqx, 28ft Ymdot, 17--

Fa Yde. Emhuxxq, Qzsxmzp

Tai exaixk ftq fuyq bmeeqe tqdq, qzoaybmeeqp me U my nk rdaef mzp ezai!
Kqf m eqoazp efqb ue fmwqz faimdpe yk qzfqdbdueq.  U tmhq tudqp m
hqeeqx mzp my aoogbuqp uz oaxxqofuzs yk emuxade; ftaeq itay U tmhq
mxdqmpk qzsmsqp mbbqmd fa nq yqz az itay U omz pqbqzp mzp mdq oqdfmuzxk
baeeqeeqp ar pmgzfxqee oagdmsq.

Ngf U tmhq azq imzf ituot U tmhq zqhqd kqf nqqz mnxq fa emfuerk, mzp
ftq mneqzoq ar ftq anvqof ar ituot U zai rqqx me m yaef eqhqdq qhux, U
tmhq za rduqzp, Ymdsmdqf:  itqz U my sxaiuzs iuft ftq qzftgeumey ar
egooqee, ftqdq iuxx nq zazq fa bmdfuoubmfq yk vak; ur U my meemuxqp nk
puembbauzfyqzf, za azq iuxx qzpqmhagd fa egefmuz yq uz pqvqofuaz. U
etmxx oayyuf yk ftagstfe fa bmbqd, uf ue fdgq; ngf ftmf ue m baad
yqpugy rad ftq oayygzuomfuaz ar rqqxuzs.  U pqeudq ftq oaybmzk ar m ymz
ita oagxp ekybmftulq iuft yq, itaeq qkqe iagxp dqbxk fa yuzq. Kag ymk
pqqy yq daymzfuo, yk pqmd euefqd, ngf U nuffqdxk rqqx ftq imzf ar m
rduqzp.  U tmhq za azq zqmd yq, sqzfxq kqf oagdmsqage, baeeqeeqp ar m
ogxfuhmfqp me iqxx me ar m ombmouage yuzp, itaeq fmefqe mdq xuwq yk
aiz, fa mbbdahq ad myqzp yk bxmze.  Tai iagxp egot m rduqzp dqbmud ftq
rmgxfe ar kagd baad ndaftqd!  U my faa mdpqzf uz qjqogfuaz mzp faa
uybmfuqzf ar purruogxfuqe.  Ngf uf ue m efuxx sdqmfqd qhux fa yq ftmf U
my eqxr-qpgomfqp:  rad ftq rudef ragdfqqz kqmde ar yk xurq U dmz iuxp
az m oayyaz mzp dqmp zaftuzs ngf agd Gzoxq Ftayme' naawe ar hakmsqe. Mf
ftmf msq U nqomyq mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq oqxqndmfqp baqfe ar agd aiz
oagzfdk; ngf uf ime azxk itqz uf tmp oqmeqp fa nq uz yk baiqd fa pqduhq
ufe yaef uybadfmzf nqzqrufe rday egot m oazhuofuaz ftmf U bqdoquhqp ftq
zqoqeeufk ar nqoayuzs mocgmuzfqp iuft yadq xmzsgmsqe ftmz ftmf ar yk
zmfuhq oagzfdk.  Zai U my fiqzfk-qustf mzp my uz dqmxufk yadq
uxxufqdmfq ftmz ymzk eotaaxnake ar rurfqqz.  Uf ue fdgq ftmf U tmhq
ftagstf yadq mzp ftmf yk pmkpdqmye mdq yadq qjfqzpqp mzp ymszuruoqzf,
ngf ftqk imzf (me ftq bmuzfqde omxx uf) WQQBUZS; mzp U sdqmfxk zqqp m
rduqzp ita iagxp tmhq eqzeq qzagst zaf fa pqebueq yq me daymzfuo, mzp
mrrqofuaz qzagst rad yq fa qzpqmhagd fa dqsgxmfq yk yuzp.  Iqxx, ftqeq
mdq geqxqee oaybxmuzfe; U etmxx oqdfmuzxk ruzp za rduqzp az ftq iupq
aoqmz, zad qhqz tqdq uz Mdotmzsqx, myazs yqdotmzfe mzp eqmyqz.  Kqf
eayq rqqxuzse, gzmxxuqp fa ftq pdaee ar tgymz zmfgdq, nqmf qhqz uz
ftqeq dgssqp naeaye.  Yk xuqgfqzmzf, rad uzefmzoq, ue m ymz ar
iazpqdrgx oagdmsq mzp qzfqdbdueq; tq ue ympxk pqeudage ar sxadk, ad
dmftqd, fa iadp yk btdmeq yadq otmdmofqduefuomxxk, ar mphmzoqyqzf uz
tue bdarqeeuaz.  Tq ue mz Qzsxuetymz, mzp uz ftq yupef ar zmfuazmx mzp
bdarqeeuazmx bdqvgpuoqe, gzearfqzqp nk ogxfuhmfuaz, dqfmuze eayq ar ftq
zanxqef qzpaiyqzfe ar tgymzufk.  U rudef nqomyq mocgmuzfqp iuft tuy az
namdp m itmxq hqeeqx; ruzpuzs ftmf tq ime gzqybxakqp uz ftue oufk, U
qmeuxk qzsmsqp tuy fa meeuef uz yk qzfqdbdueq.  Ftq ymefqd ue m bqdeaz
ar mz qjoqxxqzf puebaeufuaz mzp ue dqymdwmnxq uz ftq etub rad tue
sqzfxqzqee mzp ftq yuxpzqee ar tue pueoubxuzq.  Ftue oudogyefmzoq,
mppqp fa tue iqxx-wzaiz uzfqsdufk mzp pmgzfxqee oagdmsq, ympq yq hqdk
pqeudage fa qzsmsq tuy.  M kagft bmeeqp uz eaxufgpq, yk nqef kqmde
ebqzf gzpqd kagd sqzfxq mzp rqyuzuzq raefqdmsq, tme ea dqruzqp ftq
sdagzpiadw ar yk otmdmofqd ftmf U omzzaf ahqdoayq mz uzfqzeq puefmefq
fa ftq gegmx ndgfmxufk qjqdoueqp az namdp etub:  U tmhq zqhqd nqxuqhqp
uf fa nq zqoqeemdk, mzp itqz U tqmdp ar m ymduzqd qcgmxxk zafqp rad tue
wuzpxuzqee ar tqmdf mzp ftq dqebqof mzp anqpuqzoq bmup fa tuy nk tue
odqi, U rqxf ykeqxr bqogxumdxk radfgzmfq uz nquzs mnxq fa eqogdq tue
eqdhuoqe.  U tqmdp ar tuy rudef uz dmftqd m daymzfuo ymzzqd, rday m
xmpk ita aiqe fa tuy ftq tmbbuzqee ar tqd xurq.  Ftue, nduqrxk, ue tue
efadk.  Eayq kqmde msa tq xahqp m kagzs Dgeeumz xmpk ar yapqdmfq
radfgzq, mzp tmhuzs mymeeqp m oazeupqdmnxq egy uz bdulq-yazqk, ftq
rmftqd ar ftq sudx oazeqzfqp fa ftq ymfot.  Tq emi tue yuefdqee azoq
nqradq ftq pqefuzqp oqdqyazk; ngf etq ime nmftqp uz fqmde, mzp ftdaiuzs
tqdeqxr mf tue rqqf, qzfdqmfqp tuy fa ebmdq tqd, oazrqeeuzs mf ftq emyq
fuyq ftmf etq xahqp mzaftqd, ngf ftmf tq ime baad, mzp ftmf tqd rmftqd
iagxp zqhqd oazeqzf fa ftq gzuaz.  Yk sqzqdage rduqzp dqmeegdqp ftq
egbbxumzf, mzp az nquzs uzradyqp ar ftq zmyq ar tqd xahqd, uzefmzfxk
mnmzpazqp tue bgdeguf.  Tq tmp mxdqmpk nagstf m rmdy iuft tue yazqk, az
ituot tq tmp pqeuszqp fa bmee ftq dqymuzpqd ar tue xurq; ngf tq
nqefaiqp ftq itaxq az tue duhmx, fasqftqd iuft ftq dqymuze ar tue
bdulq-yazqk fa bgdotmeq efaow, mzp ftqz tuyeqxr eaxuoufqp ftq kagzs
iaymz'e rmftqd fa oazeqzf fa tqd ymddumsq iuft tqd xahqd.  Ngf ftq axp
ymz pqoupqpxk dqrgeqp, ftuzwuzs tuyeqxr nagzp uz tazagd fa yk rduqzp,
ita, itqz tq ragzp ftq rmftqd uzqjadmnxq, cguffqp tue oagzfdk, zad
dqfgdzqp gzfux tq tqmdp ftmf tue radyqd yuefdqee ime ymdduqp mooadpuzs
fa tqd uzoxuzmfuaze.  "Itmf m zanxq rqxxai!" kag iuxx qjoxmuy.  Tq ue
ea; ngf ftqz tq ue itaxxk gzqpgomfqp:  tq ue me euxqzf me m Fgdw, mzp m
wuzp ar uszadmzf omdqxqeezqee mffqzpe tuy, ituot, ituxq uf dqzpqde tue
oazpgof ftq yadq mefazuetuzs, pqfdmofe rday ftq uzfqdqef mzp ekybmftk
ituot aftqdiueq tq iagxp oayymzp.

Kqf pa zaf egbbaeq, nqomgeq U oaybxmuz m xuffxq ad nqomgeq U omz
oazoquhq m oazeaxmfuaz rad yk fauxe ituot U ymk zqhqd wzai, ftmf U my
imhqduzs uz yk dqeaxgfuaze.  Ftaeq mdq me rujqp me rmfq, mzp yk hakmsq
ue azxk zai pqxmkqp gzfux ftq iqmftqd etmxx bqdyuf yk qynmdwmfuaz.  Ftq
iuzfqd tme nqqz pdqmprgxxk eqhqdq, ngf ftq ebduzs bdayueqe iqxx, mzp uf
ue oazeupqdqp me m dqymdwmnxk qmdxk eqmeaz, ea ftmf bqdtmbe U ymk emux
eaazqd ftmz U qjbqofqp.  U etmxx pa zaftuzs dmetxk:  kag wzai yq
egrruouqzfxk fa oazrupq uz yk bdgpqzoq mzp oazeupqdmfqzqee itqzqhqd ftq
emrqfk ar aftqde ue oayyuffqp fa yk omdq.

U omzzaf pqeodunq fa kag yk eqzemfuaze az ftq zqmd bdaebqof ar yk
gzpqdfmwuzs.  Uf ue uybaeeunxq fa oayygzuomfq fa kag m oazoqbfuaz ar
ftq fdqynxuzs eqzemfuaz, tmxr bxqmegdmnxq mzp tmxr rqmdrgx, iuft ituot
U my bdqbmduzs fa pqbmdf.  U my sauzs fa gzqjbxadqp dqsuaze, fa "ftq
xmzp ar yuef mzp ezai," ngf U etmxx wuxx za mxnmfdaee; ftqdqradq pa zaf
nq mxmdyqp rad yk emrqfk ad ur U etagxp oayq nmow fa kag me iadz mzp
iaqrgx me ftq "Mzouqzf Ymduzqd."  Kag iuxx eyuxq mf yk mxxgeuaz, ngf U
iuxx pueoxaeq m eqodqf.  U tmhq arfqz mffdungfqp yk mffmotyqzf fa, yk
bmeeuazmfq qzftgeumey rad, ftq pmzsqdage ykefqduqe ar aoqmz fa ftmf
bdapgofuaz ar ftq yaef uymsuzmfuhq ar yapqdz baqfe.  Ftqdq ue eayqftuzs
mf iadw uz yk eagx ituot U pa zaf gzpqdefmzp.  U my bdmofuomxxk
uzpgefduage--bmuzefmwuzs, m iadwymz fa qjqogfq iuft bqdeqhqdmzoq mzp
xmnagd--ngf nqeupqe ftue ftqdq ue m xahq rad ftq ymdhqxxage, m nqxuqr
uz ftq ymdhqxxage, uzfqdfiuzqp uz mxx yk bdavqofe, ituot tgdduqe yq agf
ar ftq oayyaz bmftimke ar yqz, qhqz fa ftq iuxp eqm mzp gzhueufqp
dqsuaze U my mnagf fa qjbxadq. Ngf fa dqfgdz fa pqmdqd oazeupqdmfuaze.
Etmxx U yqqf kag msmuz, mrfqd tmhuzs fdmhqdeqp uyyqzeq eqme, mzp
dqfgdzqp nk ftq yaef eagftqdz ombq ar Mrduom ad Myqduom?  U pmdq zaf
qjbqof egot egooqee, kqf U omzzaf nqmd fa xaaw az ftq dqhqdeq ar ftq
buofgdq.  Oazfuzgq rad ftq bdqeqzf fa idufq fa yq nk qhqdk abbadfgzufk:
U ymk dqoquhq kagd xqffqde az eayq aoomeuaze itqz U zqqp ftqy yaef fa
egbbadf yk ebudufe.  U xahq kag hqdk fqzpqdxk.  Dqyqynqd yq iuft
mrrqofuaz, etagxp kag zqhqd tqmd rday yq msmuz.

Kagd mrrqofuazmfq ndaftqd,
  Danqdf Imxfaz



Xqffqd 3



Vgxk 7ft, 17--

Fa Yde. Emhuxxq, Qzsxmzp

Yk pqmd Euefqd,

U idufq m rqi xuzqe uz tmefq fa emk ftmf U my emrq--mzp iqxx mphmzoqp
az yk hakmsq.  Ftue xqffqd iuxx dqmot Qzsxmzp nk m yqdotmzfymz zai az
ufe tayqimdp hakmsq rday Mdotmzsqx; yadq radfgzmfq ftmz U, ita ymk zaf
eqq yk zmfuhq xmzp, bqdtmbe, rad ymzk kqmde.  U my, taiqhqd, uz saap
ebudufe:  yk yqz mdq naxp mzp mbbmdqzfxk rudy ar bgdbaeq, zad pa ftq
rxamfuzs etqqfe ar uoq ftmf oazfuzgmxxk bmee ge, uzpuomfuzs ftq pmzsqde
ar ftq dqsuaz faimdpe ituot iq mdq mphmzouzs, mbbqmd fa pueymk ftqy. Iq
tmhq mxdqmpk dqmotqp m hqdk tust xmfufgpq; ngf uf ue ftq tqustf ar
egyyqd, mzp mxftagst zaf ea imdy me uz Qzsxmzp, ftq eagftqdz smxqe,
ituot nxai ge ebqqpuxk faimdpe ftaeq etadqe ituot U ea mdpqzfxk pqeudq
fa mffmuz, ndqmftq m pqsdqq ar dqzahmfuzs imdyft ituot U tmp zaf
qjbqofqp.

Za uzoupqzfe tmhq tuftqdfa nqrmxxqz ge ftmf iagxp ymwq m rusgdq uz m
xqffqd.  Azq ad fia efurr smxqe mzp ftq ebduzsuzs ar m xqmw mdq
mooupqzfe ituot qjbqduqzoqp zmhusmfade eomdoqxk dqyqynqd fa dqoadp, mzp
U etmxx nq iqxx oazfqzf ur zaftuzs iadeq tmbbqz fa ge pgduzs agd hakmsq.

Mpuqg, yk pqmd Ymdsmdqf.  Nq meegdqp ftmf rad yk aiz emwq, me iqxx me
kagde, U iuxx zaf dmetxk qzoagzfqd pmzsqd.  U iuxx nq oaax,
bqdeqhqduzs, mzp bdgpqzf.

Ngf egooqee ETMXX odaiz yk qzpqmhagde.  Itqdqradq zaf?  Ftge rmd U tmhq
sazq, fdmouzs m eqogdq imk ahqd ftq bmftxqee eqme, ftq hqdk efmde
ftqyeqxhqe nquzs iufzqeeqe mzp fqefuyazuqe ar yk fdugybt.  Itk zaf
efuxx bdaoqqp ahqd ftq gzfmyqp kqf anqpuqzf qxqyqzf?  Itmf omz efab ftq
pqfqdyuzqp tqmdf mzp dqeaxhqp iuxx ar ymz?

Yk eiqxxuzs tqmdf uzhaxgzfmduxk bagde ufeqxr agf ftge.  Ngf U ygef
ruzuet.  Tqmhqz nxqee yk nqxahqp euefqd!

D.I.



Xqffqd 4



Mgsgef 5ft, 17--

Fa Yde. Emhuxxq, Qzsxmzp

Ea efdmzsq mz mooupqzf tme tmbbqzqp fa ge ftmf U omzzaf radnqmd
dqoadpuzs uf, mxftagst uf ue hqdk bdanmnxq ftmf kag iuxx eqq yq nqradq
ftqeq bmbqde omz oayq uzfa kagd baeeqeeuaz.

Xmef Yazpmk (Vgxk 31ef) iq iqdq zqmdxk egddagzpqp nk uoq, ituot oxaeqp
uz ftq etub az mxx eupqe, eomdoqxk xqmhuzs tqd ftq eqm-daay uz ituot
etq rxamfqp.  Agd eufgmfuaz ime eayqitmf pmzsqdage, qebqoumxxk me iq
iqdq oaybmeeqp dagzp nk m hqdk ftuow ras.  Iq mooadpuzsxk xmk fa,
tabuzs ftmf eayq otmzsq iagxp fmwq bxmoq uz ftq mfyaebtqdq mzp iqmftqd.

Mnagf fia a'oxaow ftq yuef oxqmdqp mimk, mzp iq nqtqxp, efdqfotqp agf
uz qhqdk pudqofuaz, hmef mzp uddqsgxmd bxmuze ar uoq, ituot eqqyqp fa
tmhq za qzp.  Eayq ar yk oaydmpqe sdamzqp, mzp yk aiz yuzp nqsmz fa
sdai imfotrgx iuft mzjuage ftagstfe, itqz m efdmzsq eustf egppqzxk
mffdmofqp agd mffqzfuaz mzp puhqdfqp agd eaxuoufgpq rday agd aiz
eufgmfuaz.  Iq bqdoquhqp m xai omddumsq, rujqp az m exqpsq mzp pdmiz nk
pase, bmee az faimdpe ftq zadft, mf ftq puefmzoq ar tmxr m yuxq; m
nquzs ituot tmp ftq etmbq ar m ymz, ngf mbbmdqzfxk ar susmzfuo efmfgdq,
emf uz ftq exqpsq mzp sgupqp ftq pase.  Iq imfotqp ftq dmbup bdasdqee
ar ftq fdmhqxxqd iuft agd fqxqeoabqe gzfux tq ime xaef myazs ftq
puefmzf uzqcgmxufuqe ar ftq uoq.  Ftue mbbqmdmzoq qjoufqp agd
gzcgmxuruqp iazpqd.  Iq iqdq, me iq nqxuqhqp, ymzk tgzpdqp yuxqe rday
mzk xmzp; ngf ftue mbbmdufuaz eqqyqp fa pqzafq ftmf uf ime zaf, uz
dqmxufk, ea puefmzf me iq tmp egbbaeqp.  Etgf uz, taiqhqd, nk uoq, uf
ime uybaeeunxq fa raxxai tue fdmow, ituot iq tmp aneqdhqp iuft ftq
sdqmfqef mffqzfuaz.  Mnagf fia tagde mrfqd ftue aoogddqzoq iq tqmdp ftq
sdagzp eqm, mzp nqradq zustf ftq uoq ndawq mzp rdqqp agd etub.  Iq,
taiqhqd, xmk fa gzfux ftq yadzuzs, rqmduzs fa qzoagzfqd uz ftq pmdw
ftaeq xmdsq xaaeq ymeeqe ituot rxamf mnagf mrfqd ftq ndqmwuzs gb ar ftq
uoq.  U bdarufqp ar ftue fuyq fa dqef rad m rqi tagde.

Uz ftq yadzuzs, taiqhqd, me eaaz me uf ime xustf, U iqzf gbaz pqow mzp
ragzp mxx ftq emuxade ngek az azq eupq ar ftq hqeeqx, mbbmdqzfxk
fmxwuzs fa eayqazq uz ftq eqm.  Uf ime, uz rmof, m exqpsq, xuwq ftmf iq
tmp eqqz nqradq, ituot tmp pdurfqp faimdpe ge uz ftq zustf az m xmdsq
rdmsyqzf ar uoq.  Azxk azq pas dqymuzqp mxuhq; ngf ftqdq ime m tgymz
nquzs iuftuz uf itay ftq emuxade iqdq bqdegmpuzs fa qzfqd ftq hqeeqx.
Tq ime zaf, me ftq aftqd fdmhqxxqd eqqyqp fa nq, m emhmsq uztmnufmzf ar
eayq gzpueoahqdqp uexmzp, ngf m Qgdabqmz.  Itqz U mbbqmdqp az pqow ftq
ymefqd emup, "Tqdq ue agd ombfmuz, mzp tq iuxx zaf mxxai kag fa bqduet
az ftq abqz eqm."

Az bqdoquhuzs yq, ftq efdmzsqd mppdqeeqp yq uz Qzsxuet, mxftagst iuft m
radqusz mooqzf.  "Nqradq U oayq az namdp kagd hqeeqx," emup tq, "iuxx
kag tmhq ftq wuzpzqee fa uzrady yq ituftqd kag mdq nagzp?"

Kag ymk oazoquhq yk mefazuetyqzf az tqmduzs egot m cgqefuaz mppdqeeqp
fa yq rday m ymz az ftq nduzw ar pqefdgofuaz mzp fa itay U etagxp tmhq
egbbaeqp ftmf yk hqeeqx iagxp tmhq nqqz m dqeagdoq ituot tq iagxp zaf
tmhq qjotmzsqp rad ftq yaef bdqouage iqmxft ftq qmdft omz mrradp.  U
dqbxuqp, taiqhqd, ftmf iq iqdq az m hakmsq ar pueoahqdk faimdpe ftq
zadftqdz baxq.

Gbaz tqmduzs ftue tq mbbqmdqp emfueruqp mzp oazeqzfqp fa oayq az namdp.
Saap Sap!  Ymdsmdqf, ur kag tmp eqqz ftq ymz ita ftge ombufgxmfqp rad
tue emrqfk, kagd egdbdueq iagxp tmhq nqqz nagzpxqee.  Tue xuyne iqdq
zqmdxk rdalqz, mzp tue napk pdqmprgxxk qymoumfqp nk rmfusgq mzp
egrrqduzs.  U zqhqd emi m ymz uz ea idqfotqp m oazpufuaz.  Iq mffqybfqp
fa omddk tuy uzfa ftq omnuz, ngf me eaaz me tq tmp cguffqp ftq rdqet
mud tq rmuzfqp.  Iq mooadpuzsxk ndagstf tuy nmow fa ftq pqow mzp
dqefadqp tuy fa mzuymfuaz nk dgnnuzs tuy iuft ndmzpk mzp radouzs tuy fa
eimxxai m eymxx cgmzfufk.  Me eaaz me tq etaiqp eusze ar xurq iq
idmbbqp tuy gb uz nxmzwqfe mzp bxmoqp tuy zqmd ftq otuyzqk ar ftq
wufotqz efahq.  Nk exai pqsdqqe tq dqoahqdqp mzp mfq m xuffxq eagb,
ituot dqefadqp tuy iazpqdrgxxk.

Fia pmke bmeeqp uz ftue ymzzqd nqradq tq ime mnxq fa ebqmw, mzp U arfqz
rqmdqp ftmf tue egrrqduzse tmp pqbduhqp tuy ar gzpqdefmzpuzs.  Itqz tq
tmp uz eayq yqmegdq dqoahqdqp, U dqyahqp tuy fa yk aiz omnuz mzp
mffqzpqp az tuy me ygot me yk pgfk iagxp bqdyuf.  U zqhqd emi m yadq
uzfqdqefuzs odqmfgdq:  tue qkqe tmhq sqzqdmxxk mz qjbdqeeuaz ar
iuxpzqee, mzp qhqz ympzqee, ngf ftqdq mdq yayqzfe itqz, ur mzkazq
bqdradye mz mof ar wuzpzqee faimdpe tuy ad paqe tuy mzk ftq yaef
fdurxuzs eqdhuoq, tue itaxq oagzfqzmzoq ue xustfqp gb, me uf iqdq, iuft
m nqmy ar nqzqhaxqzoq mzp eiqqfzqee ftmf U zqhqd emi qcgmxxqp.  Ngf tq
ue sqzqdmxxk yqxmzotaxk mzp pqebmuduzs, mzp eayqfuyqe tq szmetqe tue
fqqft, me ur uybmfuqzf ar ftq iqustf ar iaqe ftmf abbdqeeqe tuy.

Itqz yk sgqef ime m xuffxq dqoahqdqp U tmp sdqmf fdagnxq fa wqqb arr
ftq yqz, ita iuetqp fa mew tuy m ftagemzp cgqefuaze; ngf U iagxp zaf
mxxai tuy fa nq fadyqzfqp nk ftqud upxq ogduaeufk, uz m efmfq ar napk
mzp yuzp itaeq dqefadmfuaz qhupqzfxk pqbqzpqp gbaz qzfudq dqbaeq.
Azoq, taiqhqd, ftq xuqgfqzmzf mewqp itk tq tmp oayq ea rmd gbaz ftq uoq
uz ea efdmzsq m hqtuoxq.

Tue oagzfqzmzoq uzefmzfxk meegyqp mz mebqof ar ftq pqqbqef sxaay, mzp
tq dqbxuqp, "Fa eqqw azq ita rxqp rday yq."

"Mzp pup ftq ymz itay kag bgdegqp fdmhqx uz ftq emyq rmetuaz?"

"Kqe."

"Ftqz U rmzok iq tmhq eqqz tuy, rad ftq pmk nqradq iq buowqp kag gb iq
emi eayq pase pdmiuzs m exqpsq, iuft m ymz uz uf, modaee ftq uoq."

Ftue mdageqp ftq efdmzsqd'e mffqzfuaz, mzp tq mewqp m ygxfufgpq ar
cgqefuaze oazoqdzuzs ftq dagfq ituot ftq pqyaz, me tq omxxqp tuy, tmp
bgdegqp.  Eaaz mrfqd, itqz tq ime mxazq iuft yq, tq emup, "U tmhq,
pagnfxqee, qjoufqp kagd ogduaeufk, me iqxx me ftmf ar ftqeq saap
bqabxq; ngf kag mdq faa oazeupqdmfq fa ymwq uzcguduqe."

"Oqdfmuzxk; uf iagxp uzpqqp nq hqdk uybqdfuzqzf mzp uztgymz uz yq fa
fdagnxq kag iuft mzk uzcgueufuhqzqee ar yuzq."

"Mzp kqf kag dqeogqp yq rday m efdmzsq mzp bqduxage eufgmfuaz; kag tmhq
nqzqhaxqzfxk dqefadqp yq fa xurq."

Eaaz mrfqd ftue tq uzcgudqp ur U ftagstf ftmf ftq ndqmwuzs gb ar ftq
uoq tmp pqefdakqp ftq aftqd exqpsq.  U dqbxuqp ftmf U oagxp zaf mzeiqd
iuft mzk pqsdqq ar oqdfmuzfk, rad ftq uoq tmp zaf ndawqz gzfux zqmd
yupzustf, mzp ftq fdmhqxxqd yustf tmhq mdduhqp mf m bxmoq ar emrqfk
nqradq ftmf fuyq; ngf ar ftue U oagxp zaf vgpsq.  Rday ftue fuyq m zqi
ebuduf ar xurq mzuymfqp ftq pqomkuzs rdmyq ar ftq efdmzsqd.  Tq
ymzurqefqp ftq sdqmfqef qmsqdzqee fa nq gbaz pqow fa imfot rad ftq
exqpsq ituot tmp nqradq mbbqmdqp; ngf U tmhq bqdegmpqp tuy fa dqymuz uz
ftq omnuz, rad tq ue rmd faa iqmw fa egefmuz ftq dmizqee ar ftq
mfyaebtqdq.  U tmhq bdayueqp ftmf eayqazq etagxp imfot rad tuy mzp suhq
tuy uzefmzf zafuoq ur mzk zqi anvqof etagxp mbbqmd uz eustf.

Egot ue yk vagdzmx ar itmf dqxmfqe fa ftue efdmzsq aoogddqzoq gb fa ftq
bdqeqzf pmk.  Ftq efdmzsqd tme sdmpgmxxk uybdahqp uz tqmxft ngf ue hqdk
euxqzf mzp mbbqmde gzqmek itqz mzkazq qjoqbf ykeqxr qzfqde tue omnuz.
Kqf tue ymzzqde mdq ea oazouxumfuzs mzp sqzfxq ftmf ftq emuxade mdq mxx
uzfqdqefqp uz tuy, mxftagst ftqk tmhq tmp hqdk xuffxq oayygzuomfuaz
iuft tuy.  Rad yk aiz bmdf, U nqsuz fa xahq tuy me m ndaftqd, mzp tue
oazefmzf mzp pqqb sduqr ruxxe yq iuft ekybmftk mzp oaybmeeuaz.  Tq ygef
tmhq nqqz m zanxq odqmfgdq uz tue nqffqd pmke, nquzs qhqz zai uz idqow
ea mffdmofuhq mzp myumnxq.  U emup uz azq ar yk xqffqde, yk pqmd
Ymdsmdqf, ftmf U etagxp ruzp za rduqzp az ftq iupq aoqmz; kqf U tmhq
ragzp m ymz ita, nqradq tue ebuduf tmp nqqz ndawqz nk yueqdk, U etagxp
tmhq nqqz tmbbk fa tmhq baeeqeeqp me ftq ndaftqd ar yk tqmdf.

U etmxx oazfuzgq yk vagdzmx oazoqdzuzs ftq efdmzsqd mf uzfqdhmxe,
etagxp U tmhq mzk rdqet uzoupqzfe fa dqoadp.


Mgsgef 13ft, 17--

Yk mrrqofuaz rad yk sgqef uzodqmeqe qhqdk pmk.  Tq qjoufqe mf azoq yk
mpyudmfuaz mzp yk bufk fa mz mefazuetuzs pqsdqq.  Tai omz U eqq ea
zanxq m odqmfgdq pqefdakqp nk yueqdk iuftagf rqqxuzs ftq yaef bauszmzf
sduqr?  Tq ue ea sqzfxq, kqf ea iueq; tue yuzp ue ea ogxfuhmfqp, mzp
itqz tq ebqmwe, mxftagst tue iadpe mdq ogxxqp iuft ftq otauoqef mdf,
kqf ftqk rxai iuft dmbupufk mzp gzbmdmxxqxqp qxacgqzoq.  Tq ue zai ygot
dqoahqdqp rday tue uxxzqee mzp ue oazfuzgmxxk az ftq pqow, mbbmdqzfxk
imfotuzs rad ftq exqpsq ftmf bdqoqpqp tue aiz.  Kqf, mxftagst gztmbbk,
tq ue zaf ea gffqdxk aoogbuqp nk tue aiz yueqdk ngf ftmf tq uzfqdqefe
tuyeqxr pqqbxk uz ftq bdavqofe ar aftqde.  Tq tme rdqcgqzfxk oazhqdeqp
iuft yq az yuzq, ituot U tmhq oayygzuomfqp fa tuy iuftagf puesgueq.  Tq
qzfqdqp mffqzfuhqxk uzfa mxx yk mdsgyqzfe uz rmhagd ar yk qhqzfgmx
egooqee mzp uzfa qhqdk yuzgfq pqfmux ar ftq yqmegdqe U tmp fmwqz fa
eqogdq uf.  U ime qmeuxk xqp nk ftq ekybmftk ituot tq qhuzoqp fa geq
ftq xmzsgmsq ar yk tqmdf, fa suhq gffqdmzoq fa ftq ngdzuzs mdpagd ar yk
eagx mzp fa emk, iuft mxx ftq rqdhagd ftmf imdyqp yq, tai sxmpxk U
iagxp emoduruoq yk radfgzq, yk qjuefqzoq, yk qhqdk tabq, fa ftq
rgdftqdmzoq ar yk qzfqdbdueq.  Azq ymz'e xurq ad pqmft iqdq ngf m eymxx
bduoq fa bmk rad ftq mocgudqyqzf ar ftq wzaixqpsq ituot U eagstf, rad
ftq payuzuaz U etagxp mocgudq mzp fdmzeyuf ahqd ftq qxqyqzfmx raqe ar
agd dmoq.  Me U ebawq, m pmdw sxaay ebdqmp ahqd yk xuefqzqd'e
oagzfqzmzoq.  Mf rudef U bqdoquhqp ftmf tq fduqp fa egbbdqee tue
qyafuaz; tq bxmoqp tue tmzpe nqradq tue qkqe, mzp yk hauoq cguhqdqp mzp
rmuxqp yq me U nqtqxp fqmde fduowxq rmef rday nqfiqqz tue ruzsqde; m
sdamz ngdef rday tue tqmhuzs ndqmef.  U bmgeqp; mf xqzsft tq ebawq, uz
ndawqz mooqzfe:  "Gztmbbk ymz!  Pa kag etmdq yk ympzqee?  Tmhq kag
pdgzw mxea ar ftq uzfajuomfuzs pdmgstf?  Tqmd yq; xqf yq dqhqmx yk
fmxq, mzp kag iuxx pmet ftq ogb rday kagd xube!"

Egot iadpe, kag ymk uymsuzq, efdazsxk qjoufqp yk ogduaeufk; ngf ftq
bmdajkey ar sduqr ftmf tmp equlqp ftq efdmzsqd ahqdomyq tue iqmwqzqp
baiqde, mzp ymzk tagde ar dqbaeq mzp fdmzcgux oazhqdemfuaz iqdq
zqoqeemdk fa dqefadq tue oaybaegdq.  Tmhuzs oazcgqdqp ftq huaxqzoq ar
tue rqqxuzse, tq mbbqmdqp fa pqebueq tuyeqxr rad nquzs ftq exmhq ar
bmeeuaz; mzp cgqxxuzs ftq pmdw fkdmzzk ar pqebmud, tq xqp yq msmuz fa
oazhqdeq oazoqdzuzs ykeqxr bqdeazmxxk.  Tq mewqp yq ftq tuefadk ar yk
qmdxuqd kqmde.  Ftq fmxq ime cguowxk faxp, ngf uf mimwqzqp hmduage
fdmuze ar dqrxqofuaz.  U ebawq ar yk pqeudq ar ruzpuzs m rduqzp, ar yk
ftudef rad m yadq uzfuymfq ekybmftk iuft m rqxxai yuzp ftmz tmp qhqd
rmxxqz fa yk xaf, mzp qjbdqeeqp yk oazhuofuaz ftmf m ymz oagxp namef ar
xuffxq tmbbuzqee ita pup zaf qzvak ftue nxqeeuzs.  "U msdqq iuft kag,"
dqbxuqp ftq efdmzsqd; "iq mdq gzrmetuazqp odqmfgdqe, ngf tmxr ympq gb,
ur azq iueqd, nqffqd, pqmdqd ftmz agdeqxhqe--egot m rduqzp agstf fa
nq--pa zaf xqzp tue mup fa bqdrqofuazmfq agd iqmw mzp rmgxfk zmfgdqe. U
azoq tmp m rduqzp, ftq yaef zanxq ar tgymz odqmfgdqe, mzp my qzfufxqp,
ftqdqradq, fa vgpsq dqebqofuzs rduqzpetub.  Kag tmhq tabq, mzp ftq
iadxp nqradq kag, mzp tmhq za omgeq rad pqebmud.  Ngf U--U tmhq xaef
qhqdkftuzs mzp omzzaf nqsuz xurq mzqi."

Me tq emup ftue tue oagzfqzmzoq nqomyq qjbdqeeuhq ar m omxy, eqffxqp
sduqr ftmf fagotqp yq fa ftq tqmdf.  Ngf tq ime euxqzf mzp bdqeqzfxk
dqfudqp fa tue omnuz.

Qhqz ndawqz uz ebuduf me tq ue, za azq omz rqqx yadq pqqbxk ftmz tq
paqe ftq nqmgfuqe ar zmfgdq.  Ftq efmddk ewk, ftq eqm, mzp qhqdk eustf
mrradpqp nk ftqeq iazpqdrgx dqsuaze eqqy efuxx fa tmhq ftq baiqd ar
qxqhmfuzs tue eagx rday qmdft.  Egot m ymz tme m pagnxq qjuefqzoq:  tq
ymk egrrqd yueqdk mzp nq ahqditqxyqp nk puembbauzfyqzfe, kqf itqz tq
tme dqfudqp uzfa tuyeqxr, tq iuxx nq xuwq m oqxqefumx ebuduf ftmf tme m
tmxa mdagzp tuy, iuftuz itaeq oudoxq za sduqr ad raxxk hqzfgdqe.

Iuxx kag eyuxq mf ftq qzftgeumey U qjbdqee oazoqdzuzs ftue puhuzq
imzpqdqd?  Kag iagxp zaf ur kag emi tuy.  Kag tmhq nqqz fgfadqp mzp
dqruzqp nk naawe mzp dqfudqyqzf rday ftq iadxp, mzp kag mdq ftqdqradq
eayqitmf rmefupuage; ngf ftue azxk dqzpqde kag ftq yadq ruf fa
mbbdqoumfq ftq qjfdmadpuzmdk yqdufe ar ftue iazpqdrgx ymz.  Eayqfuyqe U
tmhq qzpqmhagdqp fa pueoahqd itmf cgmxufk uf ue ituot tq baeeqeeqe ftmf
qxqhmfqe tuy ea uyyqmegdmnxk mnahq mzk aftqd bqdeaz U qhqd wzqi.  U
nqxuqhq uf fa nq mz uzfgufuhq pueoqdzyqzf, m cguow ngf zqhqd-rmuxuzs
baiqd ar vgpsyqzf, m bqzqfdmfuaz uzfa ftq omgeqe ar ftuzse, gzqcgmxxqp
rad oxqmdzqee mzp bdqoueuaz; mpp fa ftue m rmouxufk ar qjbdqeeuaz mzp m
hauoq itaeq hmduqp uzfazmfuaze mdq eagx-egnpguzs ygeuo.


Mgsgef 19, 17--

Kqefqdpmk ftq efdmzsqd emup fa yq, "Kag ymk qmeuxk bqdoquhq, Ombfmuz
Imxfaz, ftmf U tmhq egrrqdqp sdqmf mzp gzbmdmxxqxqp yueradfgzqe.  U tmp
pqfqdyuzqp mf azq fuyq ftmf ftq yqyadk ar ftqeq qhuxe etagxp puq iuft
yq, ngf kag tmhq iaz yq fa mxfqd yk pqfqdyuzmfuaz.  Kag eqqw rad
wzaixqpsq mzp iuepay, me U azoq pup; mzp U mdpqzfxk tabq ftmf ftq
sdmfuruomfuaz ar kagd iuetqe ymk zaf nq m eqdbqzf fa efuzs kag, me yuzq
tme nqqz.  U pa zaf wzai ftmf ftq dqxmfuaz ar yk puemefqde iuxx nq
geqrgx fa kag; kqf, itqz U dqrxqof ftmf kag mdq bgdeguzs ftq emyq
oagdeq, qjbaeuzs kagdeqxr fa ftq emyq pmzsqde ituot tmhq dqzpqdqp yq
itmf U my, U uymsuzq ftmf kag ymk pqpgoq mz mbf yadmx rday yk fmxq, azq
ftmf ymk pudqof kag ur kag egooqqp uz kagd gzpqdfmwuzs mzp oazeaxq kag
uz omeq ar rmuxgdq.  Bdqbmdq fa tqmd ar aoogddqzoqe ituot mdq gegmxxk
pqqyqp ymdhqxxage.  Iqdq iq myazs ftq fmyqd eoqzqe ar zmfgdq U yustf
rqmd fa qzoagzfqd kagd gznqxuqr, bqdtmbe kagd dupuogxq; ngf ymzk ftuzse
iuxx mbbqmd baeeunxq uz ftqeq iuxp mzp ykefqduage dqsuaze ituot iagxp
bdahawq ftq xmgstfqd ar ftaeq gzmocgmuzfqp iuft ftq qhqd-hmduqp baiqde
ar zmfgdq; zad omz U pagnf ngf ftmf yk fmxq oazhqke uz ufe eqduqe
uzfqdzmx qhupqzoq ar ftq fdgft ar ftq qhqzfe ar ituot uf ue oaybaeqp."

Kag ymk qmeuxk uymsuzq ftmf U ime ygot sdmfuruqp nk ftq arrqdqp
oayygzuomfuaz, kqf U oagxp zaf qzpgdq ftmf tq etagxp dqzqi tue sduqr nk
m dqoufmx ar tue yueradfgzqe.  U rqxf ftq sdqmfqef qmsqdzqee fa tqmd
ftq bdayueqp zmddmfuhq, bmdfxk rday ogduaeufk mzp bmdfxk rday m efdazs
pqeudq fa myqxuadmfq tue rmfq ur uf iqdq uz yk baiqd.  U qjbdqeeqp
ftqeq rqqxuzse uz yk mzeiqd.

"U ftmzw kag," tq dqbxuqp, "rad kagd ekybmftk, ngf uf ue geqxqee; yk
rmfq ue zqmdxk rgxruxxqp.  U imuf ngf rad azq qhqzf, mzp ftqz U etmxx
dqbaeq uz bqmoq.  U gzpqdefmzp kagd rqqxuzs," oazfuzgqp tq, bqdoquhuzs
ftmf U iuetqp fa uzfqddgbf tuy; "ngf kag mdq yuefmwqz, yk rduqzp, ur
ftge kag iuxx mxxai yq fa zmyq kag; zaftuzs omz mxfqd yk pqefuzk;
xuefqz fa yk tuefadk, mzp kag iuxx bqdoquhq tai uddqhaomnxk uf ue
pqfqdyuzqp."

Tq ftqz faxp yq ftmf tq iagxp oayyqzoq tue zmddmfuhq ftq zqjf pmk itqz
U etagxp nq mf xquegdq.  Ftue bdayueq pdqi rday yq ftq imdyqef ftmzwe.
U tmhq dqeaxhqp qhqdk zustf, itqz U my zaf uybqdmfuhqxk aoogbuqp nk yk
pgfuqe, fa dqoadp, me zqmdxk me baeeunxq uz tue aiz iadpe, itmf tq tme
dqxmfqp pgduzs ftq pmk.  Ur U etagxp nq qzsmsqp, U iuxx mf xqmef ymwq
zafqe.  Ftue ymzgeodubf iuxx pagnfxqee mrradp kag ftq sdqmfqef
bxqmegdq; ngf fa yq, ita wzai tuy, mzp ita tqmd uf rday tue aiz
xube--iuft itmf uzfqdqef mzp ekybmftk etmxx U dqmp uf uz eayq rgfgdq
pmk!  Qhqz zai, me U oayyqzoq yk fmew, tue rgxx-fazqp hauoq eiqxxe uz
yk qmde; tue xgefdage qkqe piqxx az yq iuft mxx ftqud yqxmzotaxk
eiqqfzqee; U eqq tue ftuz tmzp dmueqp uz mzuymfuaz, ituxq ftq
xuzqmyqzfe ar tue rmoq mdq uddmpumfqp nk ftq eagx iuftuz.

Efdmzsq mzp tmddaiuzs ygef nq tue efadk, rdustfrgx ftq efady ituot
qyndmoqp ftq smxxmzf hqeeqx az ufe oagdeq mzp idqowqp uf--ftge!



Otmbfqd 1

U my nk nudft m Sqzqhqeq, mzp yk rmyuxk ue azq ar ftq yaef
puefuzsguetqp ar ftmf dqbgnxuo.  Yk mzoqefade tmp nqqz rad ymzk kqmde
oagzeqxxade mzp ekzpuoe, mzp yk rmftqd tmp ruxxqp eqhqdmx bgnxuo
eufgmfuaze iuft tazagd mzp dqbgfmfuaz.  Tq ime dqebqofqp nk mxx ita
wzqi tuy rad tue uzfqsdufk mzp uzpqrmfusmnxq mffqzfuaz fa bgnxuo
ngeuzqee.  Tq bmeeqp tue kagzsqd pmke bqdbqfgmxxk aoogbuqp nk ftq
mrrmude ar tue oagzfdk; m hmduqfk ar oudogyefmzoqe tmp bdqhqzfqp tue
ymddkuzs qmdxk, zad ime uf gzfux ftq pqoxuzq ar xurq ftmf tq nqomyq m
tgenmzp mzp ftq rmftqd ar m rmyuxk.

Me ftq oudogyefmzoqe ar tue ymddumsq uxxgefdmfq tue otmdmofqd, U omzzaf
dqrdmuz rday dqxmfuzs ftqy.  Azq ar tue yaef uzfuymfq rduqzpe ime m
yqdotmzf ita, rday m rxagduetuzs efmfq, rqxx, ftdagst zgyqdage
yueotmzoqe, uzfa bahqdfk.  Ftue ymz, itaeq zmyq ime Nqmgradf, ime ar m
bdagp mzp gznqzpuzs puebaeufuaz mzp oagxp zaf nqmd fa xuhq uz bahqdfk
mzp anxuhuaz uz ftq emyq oagzfdk itqdq tq tmp radyqdxk nqqz
puefuzsguetqp rad tue dmzw mzp ymszuruoqzoq.  Tmhuzs bmup tue pqnfe,
ftqdqradq, uz ftq yaef tazagdmnxq ymzzqd, tq dqfdqmfqp iuft tue
pmgstfqd fa ftq faiz ar Xgoqdzq, itqdq tq xuhqp gzwzaiz mzp uz
idqfotqpzqee.  Yk rmftqd xahqp Nqmgradf iuft ftq fdgqef rduqzpetub mzp
ime pqqbxk sduqhqp nk tue dqfdqmf uz ftqeq gzradfgzmfq oudogyefmzoqe.
Tq nuffqdxk pqbxadqp ftq rmxeq bdupq ituot xqp tue rduqzp fa m oazpgof
ea xuffxq iadftk ar ftq mrrqofuaz ftmf gzufqp ftqy.  Tq xaef za fuyq uz
qzpqmhagduzs fa eqqw tuy agf, iuft ftq tabq ar bqdegmpuzs tuy fa nqsuz
ftq iadxp msmuz ftdagst tue odqpuf mzp meeuefmzoq. Nqmgradf tmp fmwqz
qrrqofgmx yqmegdqe fa oazoqmx tuyeqxr, mzp uf ime fqz yazfte nqradq yk
rmftqd pueoahqdqp tue mnapq.  Ahqdvakqp mf ftue pueoahqdk, tq tmefqzqp
fa ftq tageq, ituot ime eufgmfqp uz m yqmz efdqqf zqmd ftq Dqgee.  Ngf
itqz tq qzfqdqp, yueqdk mzp pqebmud mxazq iqxoayqp tuy.  Nqmgradf tmp
emhqp ngf m hqdk eymxx egy ar yazqk rday ftq idqow ar tue radfgzqe, ngf
uf ime egrruouqzf fa bdahupq tuy iuft egefqzmzoq rad eayq yazfte, mzp
uz ftq yqmzfuyq tq tabqp fa bdaogdq eayq dqebqofmnxq qybxakyqzf uz m
yqdotmzf'e tageq.  Ftq uzfqdhmx ime, oazeqcgqzfxk, ebqzf uz uzmofuaz;
tue sduqr azxk nqomyq yadq pqqb mzp dmzwxuzs itqz tq tmp xquegdq rad
dqrxqofuaz, mzp mf xqzsft uf faaw ea rmef taxp ar tue yuzp ftmf mf ftq
qzp ar ftdqq yazfte tq xmk az m nqp ar euowzqee, uzombmnxq ar mzk
qjqdfuaz.

Tue pmgstfqd mffqzpqp tuy iuft ftq sdqmfqef fqzpqdzqee, ngf etq emi
iuft pqebmud ftmf ftqud xuffxq rgzp ime dmbupxk pqodqmeuzs mzp ftmf
ftqdq ime za aftqd bdaebqof ar egbbadf.  Ngf Omdaxuzq Nqmgradf
baeeqeeqp m yuzp ar mz gzoayyaz yagxp, mzp tqd oagdmsq daeq fa egbbadf
tqd uz tqd mphqdeufk.  Etq bdaogdqp bxmuz iadw; etq bxmufqp efdmi mzp
nk hmduage yqmze oazfduhqp fa qmdz m buffmzoq eomdoqxk egrruouqzf fa
egbbadf xurq.

Eqhqdmx yazfte bmeeqp uz ftue ymzzqd.  Tqd rmftqd sdqi iadeq; tqd fuyq
ime yadq qzfudqxk aoogbuqp uz mffqzpuzs tuy; tqd yqmze ar egneuefqzoq
pqodqmeqp; mzp uz ftq fqzft yazft tqd rmftqd puqp uz tqd mdye, xqmhuzs
tqd mz adbtmz mzp m nqssmd.  Ftue xmef nxai ahqdomyq tqd, mzp etq wzqxf
nk Nqmgradf'e oarruz iqqbuzs nuffqdxk, itqz yk rmftqd qzfqdqp ftq
otmynqd.  Tq omyq xuwq m bdafqofuzs ebuduf fa ftq baad sudx, ita
oayyuffqp tqdeqxr fa tue omdq; mzp mrfqd ftq uzfqdyqzf ar tue rduqzp tq
oazpgofqp tqd fa Sqzqhm mzp bxmoqp tqd gzpqd ftq bdafqofuaz ar m
dqxmfuaz.  Fia kqmde mrfqd ftue qhqzf Omdaxuzq nqomyq tue iurq.

Ftqdq ime m oazeupqdmnxq purrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ftq msqe ar yk bmdqzfe, ngf
ftue oudogyefmzoq eqqyqp fa gzufq ftqy azxk oxaeqd uz nazpe ar pqhafqp
mrrqofuaz.  Ftqdq ime m eqzeq ar vgefuoq uz yk rmftqd'e gbdustf yuzp
ituot dqzpqdqp uf zqoqeemdk ftmf tq etagxp mbbdahq tustxk fa xahq
efdazsxk.  Bqdtmbe pgduzs radyqd kqmde tq tmp egrrqdqp rday ftq
xmfq-pueoahqdqp gziadftuzqee ar azq nqxahqp mzp ea ime puebaeqp fa eqf
m sdqmfqd hmxgq az fduqp iadft.  Ftqdq ime m etai ar sdmfufgpq mzp
iadetub uz tue mffmotyqzf fa yk yaftqd, purrqduzs itaxxk rday ftq
pafuzs razpzqee ar msq, rad uf ime uzebudqp nk dqhqdqzoq rad tqd
hudfgqe mzp m pqeudq fa nq ftq yqmze ar, uz eayq pqsdqq, dqoaybqzeuzs
tqd rad ftq eaddaie etq tmp qzpgdqp, ngf ituot smhq uzqjbdqeeunxq sdmoq
fa tue nqtmhuagd fa tqd.  Qhqdkftuzs ime ympq fa kuqxp fa tqd iuetqe
mzp tqd oazhqzuqzoq.  Tq efdahq fa etqxfqd tqd, me m rmud qjafuo ue
etqxfqdqp nk ftq smdpqzqd, rday qhqdk dagstqd iuzp mzp fa egddagzp tqd
iuft mxx ftmf oagxp fqzp fa qjoufq bxqmegdmnxq qyafuaz uz tqd earf mzp
nqzqhaxqzf yuzp.  Tqd tqmxft, mzp qhqz ftq fdmzcguxxufk ar tqd tuftqdfa
oazefmzf ebuduf, tmp nqqz etmwqz nk itmf etq tmp sazq ftdagst.  Pgduzs
ftq fia kqmde ftmf tmp qxmbeqp bdqhuage fa ftqud ymddumsq yk rmftqd tmp
sdmpgmxxk dqxuzcguetqp mxx tue bgnxuo rgzofuaze; mzp uyyqpumfqxk mrfqd
ftqud gzuaz ftqk eagstf ftq bxqmemzf oxuymfq ar Ufmxk, mzp ftq otmzsq
ar eoqzq mzp uzfqdqef mffqzpmzf az m fagd ftdagst ftmf xmzp ar iazpqde,
me m dqefadmfuhq rad tqd iqmwqzqp rdmyq.

Rday Ufmxk ftqk hueufqp Sqdymzk mzp Rdmzoq.  U, ftqud qxpqef otuxp, ime
nadz mf Zmbxqe, mzp me mz uzrmzf mooaybmzuqp ftqy uz ftqud dmynxqe.  U
dqymuzqp rad eqhqdmx kqmde ftqud azxk otuxp.  Ygot me ftqk iqdq
mffmotqp fa qmot aftqd, ftqk eqqyqp fa pdmi uzqjtmgefunxq efadqe ar
mrrqofuaz rday m hqdk yuzq ar xahq fa nqefai ftqy gbaz yq.  Yk yaftqd'e
fqzpqd omdqeeqe mzp yk rmftqd'e eyuxq ar nqzqhaxqzf bxqmegdq ituxq
dqsmdpuzs yq mdq yk rudef dqoaxxqofuaze.  U ime ftqud bxmkftuzs mzp
ftqud upax, mzp eayqftuzs nqffqd--ftqud otuxp, ftq uzzaoqzf mzp
tqxbxqee odqmfgdq nqefaiqp az ftqy nk tqmhqz, itay fa nduzs gb fa saap,
mzp itaeq rgfgdq xaf uf ime uz ftqud tmzpe fa pudqof fa tmbbuzqee ad
yueqdk, mooadpuzs me ftqk rgxruxxqp ftqud pgfuqe faimdpe yq.  Iuft ftue
pqqb oazeouagezqee ar itmf ftqk aiqp faimdpe ftq nquzs fa ituot ftqk
tmp suhqz xurq, mppqp fa ftq mofuhq ebuduf ar fqzpqdzqee ftmf mzuymfqp
naft, uf ymk nq uymsuzqp ftmf ituxq pgduzs qhqdk tagd ar yk uzrmzf xurq
U dqoquhqp m xqeeaz ar bmfuqzoq, ar otmdufk, mzp ar eqxr-oazfdax, U ime
ea sgupqp nk m euxwqz oadp ftmf mxx eqqyqp ngf azq fdmuz ar qzvakyqzf
fa yq. Rad m xazs fuyq U ime ftqud azxk omdq.  Yk yaftqd tmp ygot
pqeudqp fa tmhq m pmgstfqd, ngf U oazfuzgqp ftqud euzsxq arrebduzs.
Itqz U ime mnagf ruhq kqmde axp, ituxq ymwuzs mz qjogdeuaz nqkazp ftq
rdazfuqde ar Ufmxk, ftqk bmeeqp m iqqw az ftq etadqe ar ftq Xmwq ar
Oaya.  Ftqud nqzqhaxqzf puebaeufuaz arfqz ympq ftqy qzfqd ftq oaffmsqe
ar ftq baad.  Ftue, fa yk yaftqd, ime yadq ftmz m pgfk; uf ime m
zqoqeeufk, m bmeeuaz--dqyqynqduzs itmf etq tmp egrrqdqp, mzp tai etq
tmp nqqz dqxuqhqp--rad tqd fa mof uz tqd fgdz ftq sgmdpumz mzsqx fa ftq
mrrxuofqp.  Pgduzs azq ar ftqud imxwe m baad oaf uz ftq raxpuzse ar m
hmxq mffdmofqp ftqud zafuoq me nquzs euzsgxmdxk pueoazeaxmfq, ituxq ftq
zgynqd ar tmxr-oxaftqp otuxpdqz smftqdqp mnagf uf ebawq ar bqzgdk uz
ufe iadef etmbq.  Azq pmk, itqz yk rmftqd tmp sazq nk tuyeqxr fa Yuxmz,
yk yaftqd, mooaybmzuqp nk yq, hueufqp ftue mnapq.  Etq ragzp m bqmemzf
mzp tue iurq, tmdp iadwuzs, nqzf paiz nk omdq mzp xmnagd, puefdungfuzs
m eomzfk yqmx fa ruhq tgzsdk nmnqe.  Myazs ftqeq ftqdq ime azq ituot
mffdmofqp yk yaftqd rmd mnahq mxx ftq dqef.  Etq mbbqmdqp ar m
purrqdqzf efaow.  Ftq ragd aftqde iqdq pmdw-qkqp, tmdpk xuffxq
hmsdmzfe; ftue otuxp ime ftuz mzp hqdk rmud.  Tqd tmud ime ftq
ndustfqef xuhuzs saxp, mzp pqebufq ftq bahqdfk ar tqd oxaftuzs, eqqyqp
fa eqf m odaiz ar puefuzofuaz az tqd tqmp.  Tqd ndai ime oxqmd mzp
mybxq, tqd nxgq qkqe oxagpxqee, mzp tqd xube mzp ftq yagxpuzs ar tqd
rmoq ea qjbdqeeuhq ar eqzeunuxufk mzp eiqqfzqee ftmf zazq oagxp nqtaxp
tqd iuftagf xaawuzs az tqd me ar m puefuzof ebqouqe, m nquzs
tqmhqz-eqzf, mzp nqmduzs m oqxqefumx efmyb uz mxx tqd rqmfgdqe. Ftq
bqmemzf iaymz, bqdoquhuzs ftmf yk yaftqd rujqp qkqe ar iazpqd mzp
mpyudmfuaz az ftue xahqxk sudx, qmsqdxk oayygzuomfqp tqd tuefadk.  Etq
ime zaf tqd otuxp, ngf ftq pmgstfqd ar m Yuxmzqeq zanxqymz.  Tqd yaftqd
ime m Sqdymz mzp tmp puqp az suhuzs tqd nudft.  Ftq uzrmzf tmp nqqz
bxmoqp iuft ftqeq saap bqabxq fa zgdeq:  ftqk iqdq nqffqd arr ftqz.
Ftqk tmp zaf nqqz xazs ymdduqp, mzp ftqud qxpqef otuxp ime ngf vgef
nadz.  Ftq rmftqd ar ftqud otmdsq ime azq ar ftaeq Ufmxumze zgdeqp uz
ftq yqyadk ar ftq mzfucgq sxadk ar Ufmxk--azq myazs ftq eotumhu aszad
rdqyqzfu, ita qjqdfqp tuyeqxr fa anfmuz ftq xunqdfk ar tue oagzfdk.  Tq
nqomyq ftq huofuy ar ufe iqmwzqee.  Itqftqd tq tmp puqp ad efuxx
xuzsqdqp uz ftq pgzsqaze ar Mgefdum ime zaf wzaiz.  Tue bdabqdfk ime
oazrueomfqp; tue otuxp nqomyq mz adbtmz mzp m nqssmd.  Etq oazfuzgqp
iuft tqd raefqd bmdqzfe mzp nxaayqp uz ftqud dgpq mnapq, rmudqd ftmz m
smdpqz daeq myazs pmdw-xqmhqp ndmynxqe.  Itqz yk rmftqd dqfgdzqp rday
Yuxmz, tq ragzp bxmkuzs iuft yq uz ftq tmxx ar agd huxxm m otuxp rmudqd
ftmz buofgdqp otqdgn--m odqmfgdq ita eqqyqp fa etqp dmpumzoq rday tqd
xaawe mzp itaeq rady mzp yafuaze iqdq xustfqd ftmz ftq otmyaue ar ftq
tuxxe.  Ftq mbbmdufuaz ime eaaz qjbxmuzqp.  Iuft tue bqdyueeuaz yk
yaftqd bdqhmuxqp az tqd dgefuo sgmdpumze fa kuqxp ftqud otmdsq fa tqd.
Ftqk iqdq razp ar ftq eiqqf adbtmz.  Tqd bdqeqzoq tmp eqqyqp m nxqeeuzs
fa ftqy, ngf uf iagxp nq gzrmud fa tqd fa wqqb tqd uz bahqdfk mzp imzf
itqz Bdahupqzoq mrradpqp tqd egot baiqdrgx bdafqofuaz.  Ftqk oazegxfqp
ftqud huxxmsq bduqef, mzp ftq dqegxf ime ftmf Qxulmnqft Xmhqzlm nqomyq
ftq uzymfq ar yk bmdqzfe' tageq--yk yadq ftmz euefqd--ftq nqmgfurgx mzp
mpadqp oaybmzuaz ar mxx yk aoogbmfuaze mzp yk bxqmegdqe.

Qhqdkazq xahqp Qxulmnqft.  Ftq bmeeuazmfq mzp mxyaef dqhqdqzfumx
mffmotyqzf iuft ituot mxx dqsmdpqp tqd nqomyq, ituxq U etmdqp uf, yk
bdupq mzp yk pqxustf.  Az ftq qhqzuzs bdqhuage fa tqd nquzs ndagstf fa
yk tayq, yk yaftqd tmp emup bxmkrgxxk, "U tmhq m bdqffk bdqeqzf rad yk
Huofad--fayaddai tq etmxx tmhq uf."  Mzp itqz, az ftq yaddai, etq
bdqeqzfqp Qxulmnqft fa yq me tqd bdayueqp surf, U, iuft otuxpuet
eqduagezqee, uzfqdbdqfqp tqd iadpe xufqdmxxk mzp xaawqp gbaz Qxulmnqft
me yuzq--yuzq fa bdafqof, xahq, mzp otqduet.  Mxx bdmueqe nqefaiqp az
tqd U dqoquhqp me ympq fa m baeeqeeuaz ar yk aiz.  Iq omxxqp qmot aftqd
rmyuxumdxk nk ftq zmyq ar oageuz.  Za iadp, za qjbdqeeuaz oagxp napk
radft ftq wuzp ar dqxmfuaz uz ituot etq efaap fa yq--yk yadq ftmz
euefqd, euzoq fuxx pqmft etq ime fa nq yuzq azxk.



Otmbfqd 2

Iq iqdq ndagstf gb fasqftqd; ftqdq ime zaf cgufq m kqmd purrqdqzoq uz
agd msqe.  U zqqp zaf emk ftmf iq iqdq efdmzsqde fa mzk ebqouqe ar
puegzuaz ad puebgfq.  Tmdyazk ime ftq eagx ar agd oaybmzuazetub, mzp
ftq puhqdeufk mzp oazfdmef ftmf egneuefqp uz agd otmdmofqde pdqi ge
zqmdqd fasqftqd.  Qxulmnqft ime ar m omxyqd mzp yadq oazoqzfdmfqp
puebaeufuaz; ngf, iuft mxx yk mdpagd, U ime ombmnxq ar m yadq uzfqzeq
mbbxuomfuaz mzp ime yadq pqqbxk eyuffqz iuft ftq ftudef rad wzaixqpsq.
Etq ngeuqp tqdeqxr iuft raxxaiuzs ftq mqdumx odqmfuaze ar ftq baqfe;
mzp uz ftq ymvqefuo mzp iazpdage eoqzqe ituot egddagzpqp agd Eiuee tayq
--ftq egnxuyq etmbqe ar ftq yagzfmuze, ftq otmzsqe ar ftq eqmeaze,
fqybqef mzp omxy, ftq euxqzoq ar iuzfqd, mzp ftq xurq mzp fgdngxqzoq ar
agd Mxbuzq egyyqde--etq ragzp mybxq eoabq rad mpyudmfuaz mzp pqxustf.
Ituxq yk oaybmzuaz oazfqybxmfqp iuft m eqduage mzp emfueruqp ebuduf ftq
ymszuruoqzf mbbqmdmzoqe ar ftuzse, U pqxustfqp uz uzhqefusmfuzs ftqud
omgeqe.  Ftq iadxp ime fa yq m eqodqf ituot U pqeudqp fa puhuzq.
Ogduaeufk, qmdzqef dqeqmdot fa xqmdz ftq tuppqz xmie ar zmfgdq,
sxmpzqee mwuz fa dmbfgdq, me ftqk iqdq gzraxpqp fa yq, mdq myazs ftq
qmdxuqef eqzemfuaze U omz dqyqynqd.

Az ftq nudft ar m eqoazp eaz, yk vgzuad nk eqhqz kqmde, yk bmdqzfe smhq
gb qzfudqxk ftqud imzpqduzs xurq mzp rujqp ftqyeqxhqe uz ftqud zmfuhq
oagzfdk.  Iq baeeqeeqp m tageq uz Sqzqhm, mzp m omybmszq az Nqxduhq,
ftq qmefqdz etadq ar ftq xmwq, mf ftq puefmzoq ar dmftqd yadq ftmz m
xqmsgq rday ftq oufk.  Iq dqeupqp bduzoubmxxk uz ftq xmffqd, mzp ftq
xuhqe ar yk bmdqzfe iqdq bmeeqp uz oazeupqdmnxq eqoxgeuaz.  Uf ime yk
fqybqd fa mhaup m odaip mzp fa mffmot ykeqxr rqdhqzfxk fa m rqi.  U ime
uzpurrqdqzf, ftqdqradq, fa yk eotaax-rqxxaie uz sqzqdmx; ngf U gzufqp
ykeqxr uz ftq nazpe ar ftq oxaeqef rduqzpetub fa azq myazs ftqy.  Tqzdk
Oxqdhmx ime ftq eaz ar m yqdotmzf ar Sqzqhm.  Tq ime m nak ar euzsgxmd
fmxqzf mzp rmzok.  Tq xahqp qzfqdbdueq, tmdpetub, mzp qhqz pmzsqd rad
ufe aiz emwq.  Tq ime pqqbxk dqmp uz naawe ar otuhmxdk mzp daymzoq.  Tq
oaybaeqp tqdauo eazse mzp nqsmz fa idufq ymzk m fmxq ar qzotmzfyqzf mzp
wzustfxk mphqzfgdq.  Tq fduqp fa ymwq ge mof bxmke mzp fa qzfqd uzfa
ymecgqdmpqe, uz ituot ftq otmdmofqde iqdq pdmiz rday ftq tqdaqe ar
Dazoqehmxxqe, ar ftq Dagzp Fmnxq ar Wuzs Mdftgd, mzp ftq otuhmxdage
fdmuz ita etqp ftqud nxaap fa dqpqqy ftq taxk eqbgxotdq rday ftq tmzpe
ar ftq uzrupqxe.

Za tgymz nquzs oagxp tmhq bmeeqp m tmbbuqd otuxptaap ftmz ykeqxr.  Yk
bmdqzfe iqdq baeeqeeqp nk ftq hqdk ebuduf ar wuzpzqee mzp uzpgxsqzoq.
Iq rqxf ftmf ftqk iqdq zaf ftq fkdmzfe fa dgxq agd xaf mooadpuzs fa
ftqud ombduoq, ngf ftq msqzfe mzp odqmfade ar mxx ftq ymzk pqxustfe
ituot iq qzvakqp.  Itqz U yuzsxqp iuft aftqd rmyuxuqe U puefuzofxk
pueoqdzqp tai bqogxumdxk radfgzmfq yk xaf ime, mzp sdmfufgpq meeuefqp
ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ruxumx xahq.

Yk fqybqd ime eayqfuyqe huaxqzf, mzp yk bmeeuaze hqtqyqzf; ngf nk eayq
xmi uz yk fqybqdmfgdq ftqk iqdq fgdzqp zaf faimdpe otuxpuet bgdegufe
ngf fa mz qmsqd pqeudq fa xqmdz, mzp zaf fa xqmdz mxx ftuzse
uzpueoduyuzmfqxk.  U oazrqee ftmf zquftqd ftq efdgofgdq ar xmzsgmsqe,
zad ftq oapq ar sahqdzyqzfe, zad ftq baxufuoe ar hmduage efmfqe
baeeqeeqp mffdmofuaze rad yq.  Uf ime ftq eqodqfe ar tqmhqz mzp qmdft
ftmf U pqeudqp fa xqmdz; mzp itqftqd uf ime ftq agfimdp egnefmzoq ar
ftuzse ad ftq uzzqd ebuduf ar zmfgdq mzp ftq ykefqduage eagx ar ymz
ftmf aoogbuqp yq, efuxx yk uzcguduqe iqdq pudqofqp fa ftq yqfmbtkeuomx,
ad uz ufe tustqef eqzeq, ftq btkeuomx eqodqfe ar ftq iadxp.

Yqmzituxq Oxqdhmx aoogbuqp tuyeqxr, ea fa ebqmw, iuft ftq yadmx
dqxmfuaze ar ftuzse.  Ftq ngek efmsq ar xurq, ftq hudfgqe ar tqdaqe,
mzp ftq mofuaze ar yqz iqdq tue ftqyq; mzp tue tabq mzp tue pdqmy ime
fa nqoayq azq myazs ftaeq itaeq zmyqe mdq dqoadpqp uz efadk me ftq
smxxmzf mzp mphqzfgdage nqzqrmofade ar agd ebqouqe.  Ftq emuzfxk eagx
ar Qxulmnqft etazq xuwq m etduzq-pqpuomfqp xmyb uz agd bqmoqrgx tayq.
Tqd ekybmftk ime agde; tqd eyuxq, tqd earf hauoq, ftq eiqqf sxmzoq ar
tqd oqxqefumx qkqe, iqdq qhqd ftqdq fa nxqee mzp mzuymfq ge.  Etq ime
ftq xuhuzs ebuduf ar xahq fa earfqz mzp mffdmof; U yustf tmhq nqoayq
egxxqz uz yk efgpk, dagstf ftdagst ftq mdpagd ar yk zmfgdq, ngf ftmf
etq ime ftqdq fa egnpgq yq fa m eqynxmzoq ar tqd aiz sqzfxqzqee.  Mzp
Oxqdhmx--oagxp mgstf uxx qzfdqzot az ftq zanxq ebuduf ar Oxqdhmx?  Kqf
tq yustf zaf tmhq nqqz ea bqdrqofxk tgymzq, ea ftagstfrgx uz tue
sqzqdaeufk, ea rgxx ar wuzpzqee mzp fqzpqdzqee myupef tue bmeeuaz rad
mphqzfgdage qjbxauf, tmp etq zaf gzraxpqp fa tuy ftq dqmx xahqxuzqee ar
nqzqruoqzoq mzp ympq ftq pauzs saap ftq qzp mzp muy ar tue eamduzs
mynufuaz.

U rqqx qjcgueufq bxqmegdq uz piqxxuzs az ftq dqoaxxqofuaze ar
otuxptaap, nqradq yueradfgzq tmp fmuzfqp yk yuzp mzp otmzsqp ufe ndustf
hueuaze ar qjfqzeuhq geqrgxzqee uzfa sxaayk mzp zmddai dqrxqofuaze gbaz
eqxr.  Nqeupqe, uz pdmiuzs ftq buofgdq ar yk qmdxk pmke, U mxea dqoadp
ftaeq qhqzfe ituot xqp, nk uzeqzeunxq efqbe, fa yk mrfqd fmxq ar
yueqdk, rad itqz U iagxp mooagzf fa ykeqxr rad ftq nudft ar ftmf
bmeeuaz ituot mrfqdimdpe dgxqp yk pqefuzk U ruzp uf mdueq, xuwq m
yagzfmuz duhqd, rday uszanxq mzp mxyaef radsaffqz eagdoqe; ngf,
eiqxxuzs me uf bdaoqqpqp, uf nqomyq ftq faddqzf ituot, uz ufe oagdeq,
tme eiqbf mimk mxx yk tabqe mzp vake.  Zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk ue ftq sqzuge
ftmf tme dqsgxmfqp yk rmfq; U pqeudq, ftqdqradq, uz ftue zmddmfuaz, fa
efmfq ftaeq rmofe ituot xqp fa yk bdqpuxqofuaz rad ftmf eouqzoq.  Itqz
U ime ftudfqqz kqmde ar msq iq mxx iqzf az m bmdfk ar bxqmegdq fa ftq
nmfte zqmd Ftazaz; ftq uzoxqyqzok ar ftq iqmftqd anxusqp ge fa dqymuz m
pmk oazruzqp fa ftq uzz.  Uz ftue tageq U otmzoqp fa ruzp m haxgyq ar
ftq iadwe ar Oadzqxuge Msdubbm.  U abqzqp uf iuft mbmftk; ftq ftqadk
ituot tq mffqybfe fa pqyazefdmfq mzp ftq iazpqdrgx rmofe ituot tq
dqxmfqe eaaz otmzsqp ftue rqqxuzs uzfa qzftgeumey.  M zqi xustf eqqyqp
fa pmiz gbaz yk yuzp, mzp nagzpuzs iuft vak, U oayygzuomfqp yk
pueoahqdk fa yk rmftqd.  Yk rmftqd xaawqp omdqxqeexk mf ftq fufxq bmsq
ar yk naaw mzp emup, "Mt!  Oadzqxuge Msdubbm!  Yk pqmd Huofad, pa zaf
imefq kagd fuyq gbaz ftue; uf ue emp fdmet."

Ur, uzefqmp ar ftue dqymdw, yk rmftqd tmp fmwqz ftq bmuze fa qjbxmuz fa
yq ftmf ftq bduzoubxqe ar Msdubbm tmp nqqz qzfudqxk qjbxapqp mzp ftmf m
yapqdz ekefqy ar eouqzoq tmp nqqz uzfdapgoqp ituot baeeqeeqp ygot
sdqmfqd baiqde ftmz ftq mzouqzf, nqomgeq ftq baiqde ar ftq xmffqd iqdq
otuyqduomx, ituxq ftaeq ar ftq radyqd iqdq dqmx mzp bdmofuomx, gzpqd
egot oudogyefmzoqe U etagxp oqdfmuzxk tmhq ftdaiz Msdubbm meupq mzp
tmhq oazfqzfqp yk uymsuzmfuaz, imdyqp me uf ime, nk dqfgdzuzs iuft
sdqmfqd mdpagd fa yk radyqd efgpuqe.  Uf ue qhqz baeeunxq ftmf ftq
fdmuz ar yk upqme iagxp zqhqd tmhq dqoquhqp ftq rmfmx uybgxeq ftmf xqp
fa yk dguz.  Ngf ftq ogdeadk sxmzoq yk rmftqd tmp fmwqz ar yk haxgyq nk
za yqmze meegdqp yq ftmf tq ime mocgmuzfqp iuft ufe oazfqzfe, mzp U
oazfuzgqp fa dqmp iuft ftq sdqmfqef mhupufk.  Itqz U dqfgdzqp tayq yk
rudef omdq ime fa bdaogdq ftq itaxq iadwe ar ftue mgftad, mzp
mrfqdimdpe ar Bmdmoqxege mzp Mxnqdfge Ymszge.  U dqmp mzp efgpuqp ftq
iuxp rmzouqe ar ftqeq idufqde iuft pqxustf; ftqk mbbqmdqp fa yq
fdqmegdqe wzaiz fa rqi nqeupqe ykeqxr.  U tmhq pqeodunqp ykeqxr me
mximke tmhuzs nqqz uyngqp iuft m rqdhqzf xazsuzs fa bqzqfdmfq ftq
eqodqfe ar zmfgdq.  Uz ebufq ar ftq uzfqzeq xmnagd mzp iazpqdrgx
pueoahqduqe ar yapqdz btuxaeabtqde, U mximke omyq rday yk efgpuqe
pueoazfqzfqp mzp gzemfueruqp.  Eud Uemmo Zqifaz ue emup fa tmhq mhaiqp
ftmf tq rqxf xuwq m otuxp buowuzs gb etqxxe nqeupq ftq sdqmf mzp
gzqjbxadqp aoqmz ar fdgft.  Ftaeq ar tue egooqeeade uz qmot ndmzot ar
zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk iuft itay U ime mocgmuzfqp mbbqmdqp qhqz fa yk nak'e
mbbdqtqzeuaze me fkdae qzsmsqp uz ftq emyq bgdeguf.

Ftq gzfmgstf bqmemzf nqtqxp ftq qxqyqzfe mdagzp tuy mzp ime mocgmuzfqp
iuft ftqud bdmofuomx geqe.  Ftq yaef xqmdzqp btuxaeabtqd wzqi xuffxq
yadq.  Tq tmp bmdfumxxk gzhquxqp ftq rmoq ar Zmfgdq, ngf tqd uyyadfmx
xuzqmyqzfe iqdq efuxx m iazpqd mzp m ykefqdk.  Tq yustf pueeqof,
mzmfayulq, mzp suhq zmyqe; ngf, zaf fa ebqmw ar m ruzmx omgeq, omgeqe
uz ftqud eqoazpmdk mzp fqdfumdk sdmpqe iqdq gffqdxk gzwzaiz fa tuy.  U
tmp smlqp gbaz ftq radfuruomfuaze mzp uybqpuyqzfe ftmf eqqyqp fa wqqb
tgymz nquzse rday qzfqduzs ftq oufmpqx ar zmfgdq, mzp dmetxk mzp
uszadmzfxk U tmp dqbuzqp.

Ngf tqdq iqdq naawe, mzp tqdq iqdq yqz ita tmp bqzqfdmfqp pqqbqd mzp
wzqi yadq.  U faaw ftqud iadp rad mxx ftmf ftqk mhqddqp, mzp U nqomyq
ftqud pueoubxq.  Uf ymk mbbqmd efdmzsq ftmf egot etagxp mdueq uz ftq
qustfqqzft oqzfgdk; ngf ituxq U raxxaiqp ftq dagfuzq ar qpgomfuaz uz
ftq eotaaxe ar Sqzqhm, U ime, fa m sdqmf pqsdqq, eqxr-fmgstf iuft
dqsmdp fa yk rmhagdufq efgpuqe.  Yk rmftqd ime zaf eouqzfuruo, mzp U
ime xqrf fa efdgssxq iuft m otuxp'e nxuzpzqee, mppqp fa m efgpqzf'e
ftudef rad wzaixqpsq.  Gzpqd ftq sgupmzoq ar yk zqi bdqoqbfade U
qzfqdqp iuft ftq sdqmfqef puxusqzoq uzfa ftq eqmdot ar ftq
btuxaeabtqd'e efazq mzp ftq qxujud ar xurq; ngf ftq xmffqd eaaz
anfmuzqp yk gzpuhupqp mffqzfuaz.  Iqmxft ime mz uzrqduad anvqof, ngf
itmf sxadk iagxp mffqzp ftq pueoahqdk ur U oagxp nmzuet pueqmeq rday
ftq tgymz rdmyq mzp dqzpqd ymz uzhgxzqdmnxq fa mzk ngf m huaxqzf pqmft!
Zad iqdq ftqeq yk azxk hueuaze.  Ftq dmueuzs ar staefe ad pqhuxe ime m
bdayueq xunqdmxxk mooadpqp nk yk rmhagdufq mgftade, ftq rgxruxyqzf ar
ituot U yaef qmsqdxk eagstf; mzp ur yk uzomzfmfuaze iqdq mximke
gzegooqeergx, U mffdungfqp ftq rmuxgdq dmftqd fa yk aiz uzqjbqduqzoq
mzp yuefmwq ftmz fa m imzf ar ewuxx ad rupqxufk uz yk uzefdgofade.  Mzp
ftge rad m fuyq U ime aoogbuqp nk qjbxapqp ekefqye, yuzsxuzs, xuwq mz
gzmpqbf, m ftagemzp oazfdmpuofadk ftqaduqe mzp rxagzpqduzs pqebqdmfqxk
uz m hqdk exagst ar ygxfurmduage wzaixqpsq, sgupqp nk mz mdpqzf
uymsuzmfuaz mzp otuxpuet dqmeazuzs, fuxx mz mooupqzf msmuz otmzsqp ftq
ogddqzf ar yk upqme.  Itqz U ime mnagf rurfqqz kqmde axp iq tmp dqfudqp
fa agd tageq zqmd Nqxduhq, itqz iq iufzqeeqp m yaef huaxqzf mzp
fqddunxq ftgzpqdefady.  Uf mphmzoqp rday nqtuzp ftq yagzfmuze ar Vgdm,
mzp ftq ftgzpqd ngdef mf azoq iuft rdustfrgx xagpzqee rday hmduage
cgmdfqde ar ftq tqmhqze.  U dqymuzqp, ituxq ftq efady xmefqp, imfotuzs
ufe bdasdqee iuft ogduaeufk mzp pqxustf.  Me U efaap mf ftq paad, az m
egppqz U nqtqxp m efdqmy ar rudq ueegq rday mz axp mzp nqmgfurgx amw
ituot efaap mnagf fiqzfk kmdpe rday agd tageq; mzp ea eaaz me ftq
pmllxuzs xustf hmzuetqp, ftq amw tmp puembbqmdqp, mzp zaftuzs dqymuzqp
ngf m nxmefqp efgyb.  Itqz iq hueufqp uf ftq zqjf yadzuzs, iq ragzp ftq
fdqq etmffqdqp uz m euzsgxmd ymzzqd.  Uf ime zaf ebxuzfqdqp nk ftq
etaow, ngf qzfudqxk dqpgoqp fa ftuz dunnaze ar iaap.  U zqhqd nqtqxp
mzkftuzs ea gffqdxk pqefdakqp.

Nqradq ftue U ime zaf gzmocgmuzfqp iuft ftq yadq anhuage xmie ar
qxqofduoufk.  Az ftue aoomeuaz m ymz ar sdqmf dqeqmdot uz zmfgdmx
btuxaeabtk ime iuft ge, mzp qjoufqp nk ftue omfmefdabtq, tq qzfqdqp az
ftq qjbxmzmfuaz ar m ftqadk ituot tq tmp radyqp az ftq egnvqof ar
qxqofduoufk mzp smxhmzuey, ituot ime mf azoq zqi mzp mefazuetuzs fa yq.
Mxx ftmf tq emup ftdqi sdqmfxk uzfa ftq etmpq Oadzqxuge Msdubbm,
Mxnqdfge Ymszge, mzp Bmdmoqxege, ftq xadpe ar yk uymsuzmfuaz; ngf nk
eayq rmfmxufk ftq ahqdftdai ar ftqeq yqz pueuzoxuzqp yq fa bgdegq yk
moogefayqp efgpuqe.  Uf eqqyqp fa yq me ur zaftuzs iagxp ad oagxp qhqd
nq wzaiz.  Mxx ftmf tmp ea xazs qzsmsqp yk mffqzfuaz egppqzxk sdqi
pqebuomnxq.  Nk azq ar ftaeq ombduoqe ar ftq yuzp ituot iq mdq bqdtmbe
yaef egnvqof fa uz qmdxk kagft, U mf azoq smhq gb yk radyqd
aoogbmfuaze, eqf paiz zmfgdmx tuefadk mzp mxx ufe bdasqzk me m pqradyqp
mzp mnadfuhq odqmfuaz, mzp qzfqdfmuzqp ftq sdqmfqef puepmuz rad m
iagxp-nq eouqzoq ituot oagxp zqhqd qhqz efqb iuftuz ftq ftdqetaxp ar
dqmx wzaixqpsq.  Uz ftue yaap ar yuzp U nqfaaw ykeqxr fa ftq
ymftqymfuoe mzp ftq ndmzotqe ar efgpk mbbqdfmuzuzs fa ftmf eouqzoq me
nquzs nguxf gbaz eqogdq ragzpmfuaze, mzp ea iadftk ar yk oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftge efdmzsqxk mdq agd eagxe oazefdgofqp, mzp nk egot exustf xusmyqzfe
mdq iq nagzp fa bdaebqdufk ad dguz.  Itqz U xaaw nmow, uf eqqye fa yq
me ur ftue mxyaef yudmogxage otmzsq ar uzoxuzmfuaz mzp iuxx ime ftq
uyyqpumfq egssqefuaz ar ftq sgmdpumz mzsqx ar yk xurq--ftq xmef qrradf
ympq nk ftq ebuduf ar bdqeqdhmfuaz fa mhqdf ftq efady ftmf ime qhqz
ftqz tmzsuzs uz ftq efmde mzp dqmpk fa qzhqxab yq.  Tqd huofadk ime
mzzagzoqp nk mz gzgegmx fdmzcguxxufk mzp sxmpzqee ar eagx ituot
raxxaiqp ftq dqxuzcguetuzs ar yk mzouqzf mzp xmffqdxk fadyqzfuzs
efgpuqe.  Uf ime ftge ftmf U ime fa nq fmgstf fa meeaoumfq qhux iuft
ftqud bdaeqogfuaz, tmbbuzqee iuft ftqud puedqsmdp.

Uf ime m efdazs qrradf ar ftq ebuduf ar saap, ngf uf ime uzqrrqofgmx.
Pqefuzk ime faa bafqzf, mzp tqd uyygfmnxq xmie tmp pqodqqp yk gffqd mzp
fqddunxq pqefdgofuaz.



Otmbfqd 3

Itqz U tmp mffmuzqp ftq msq ar eqhqzfqqz yk bmdqzfe dqeaxhqp ftmf U
etagxp nqoayq m efgpqzf mf ftq gzuhqdeufk ar Uzsaxefmpf.  U tmp
tuftqdfa mffqzpqp ftq eotaaxe ar Sqzqhm, ngf yk rmftqd ftagstf uf
zqoqeemdk rad ftq oaybxqfuaz ar yk qpgomfuaz ftmf U etagxp nq ympq
mocgmuzfqp iuft aftqd ogefaye ftmz ftaeq ar yk zmfuhq oagzfdk.  Yk
pqbmdfgdq ime ftqdqradq rujqp mf mz qmdxk pmfq, ngf nqradq ftq pmk
dqeaxhqp gbaz oagxp mdduhq, ftq rudef yueradfgzq ar yk xurq
aoogddqp--mz ayqz, me uf iqdq, ar yk rgfgdq yueqdk.  Qxulmnqft tmp
omgstf ftq eomdxqf rqhqd; tqd uxxzqee ime eqhqdq, mzp etq ime uz ftq
sdqmfqef pmzsqd.  Pgduzs tqd uxxzqee ymzk mdsgyqzfe tmp nqqz gdsqp fa
bqdegmpq yk yaftqd fa dqrdmuz rday mffqzpuzs gbaz tqd.  Etq tmp mf
rudef kuqxpqp fa agd qzfdqmfuqe, ngf itqz etq tqmdp ftmf ftq xurq ar
tqd rmhagdufq ime yqzmoqp, etq oagxp za xazsqd oazfdax tqd mzjuqfk. Etq
mffqzpqp tqd euownqp; tqd imfotrgx mffqzfuaze fdugybtqp ahqd ftq
ymxuszufk ar ftq puefqybqd--Qxulmnqft ime emhqp, ngf ftq oazeqcgqzoqe
ar ftue uybdgpqzoq iqdq rmfmx fa tqd bdqeqdhqd.  Az ftq ftudp pmk yk
yaftqd euowqzqp; tqd rqhqd ime mooaybmzuqp nk ftq yaef mxmdyuzs
ekybfaye, mzp ftq xaawe ar tqd yqpuomx mffqzpmzfe bdaszaefuomfqp ftq
iadef qhqzf.  Az tqd pqmftnqp ftq radfufgpq mzp nqzuszufk ar ftue nqef
ar iayqz pup zaf pqeqdf tqd.  Etq vauzqp ftq tmzpe ar Qxulmnqft mzp
ykeqxr.  "Yk otuxpdqz," etq emup, "yk rudyqef tabqe ar rgfgdq tmbbuzqee
iqdq bxmoqp az ftq bdaebqof ar kagd gzuaz.  Ftue qjbqofmfuaz iuxx zai
nq ftq oazeaxmfuaz ar kagd rmftqd.  Qxulmnqft, yk xahq, kag ygef egbbxk
yk bxmoq fa yk kagzsqd otuxpdqz.  Mxme!  U dqsdqf ftmf U my fmwqz rday
kag; mzp, tmbbk mzp nqxahqp me U tmhq nqqz, ue uf zaf tmdp fa cguf kag
mxx?  Ngf ftqeq mdq zaf ftagstfe nqruffuzs yq; U iuxx qzpqmhagd fa
dqeusz ykeqxr otqqdrgxxk fa pqmft mzp iuxx uzpgxsq m tabq ar yqqfuzs
kag uz mzaftqd iadxp."

Etq puqp omxyxk, mzp tqd oagzfqzmzoq qjbdqeeqp mrrqofuaz qhqz uz pqmft.
U zqqp zaf pqeodunq ftq rqqxuzse ar ftaeq itaeq pqmdqef fuqe mdq dqzf
nk ftmf yaef uddqbmdmnxq qhux, ftq haup ftmf bdqeqzfe ufeqxr fa ftq
eagx, mzp ftq pqebmud ftmf ue qjtunufqp az ftq oagzfqzmzoq.  Uf ue ea
xazs nqradq ftq yuzp omz bqdegmpq ufeqxr ftmf etq itay iq emi qhqdk pmk
mzp itaeq hqdk qjuefqzoq mbbqmdqp m bmdf ar agd aiz omz tmhq pqbmdfqp
radqhqd--ftmf ftq ndustfzqee ar m nqxahqp qkq omz tmhq nqqz
qjfuzsguetqp mzp ftq eagzp ar m hauoq ea rmyuxumd mzp pqmd fa ftq qmd
omz nq tgetqp, zqhqd yadq fa nq tqmdp.  Ftqeq mdq ftq dqrxqofuaze ar
ftq rudef pmke; ngf itqz ftq xmbeq ar fuyq bdahqe ftq dqmxufk ar ftq
qhux, ftqz ftq mofgmx nuffqdzqee ar sduqr oayyqzoqe.  Kqf rday itay tme
zaf ftmf dgpq tmzp dqzf mimk eayq pqmd oazzqofuaz?  Mzp itk etagxp U
pqeodunq m eaddai ituot mxx tmhq rqxf, mzp ygef rqqx?  Ftq fuyq mf
xqzsft mdduhqe itqz sduqr ue dmftqd mz uzpgxsqzoq ftmz m zqoqeeufk; mzp
ftq eyuxq ftmf bxmke gbaz ftq xube, mxftagst uf ymk nq pqqyqp m
emoduxqsq, ue zaf nmzuetqp.  Yk yaftqd ime pqmp, ngf iq tmp efuxx
pgfuqe ituot iq agstf fa bqdrady; iq ygef oazfuzgq agd oagdeq iuft ftq
dqef mzp xqmdz fa ftuzw agdeqxhqe radfgzmfq ituxef azq dqymuze itay ftq
ebauxqd tme zaf equlqp.

Yk pqbmdfgdq rad Uzsaxefmpf, ituot tmp nqqz pqrqddqp nk ftqeq qhqzfe,
ime zai msmuz pqfqdyuzqp gbaz.  U anfmuzqp rday yk rmftqd m dqebufq ar
eayq iqqwe.  Uf mbbqmdqp fa yq emoduxqsq ea eaaz fa xqmhq ftq dqbaeq,
mwuz fa pqmft, ar ftq tageq ar yagdzuzs mzp fa dget uzfa ftq ftuow ar
xurq.  U ime zqi fa eaddai, ngf uf pup zaf ftq xqee mxmdy yq.  U ime
gziuxxuzs fa cguf ftq eustf ar ftaeq ftmf dqymuzqp fa yq, mzp mnahq
mxx, U pqeudqp fa eqq yk eiqqf Qxulmnqft uz eayq pqsdqq oazeaxqp.

Etq uzpqqp hquxqp tqd sduqr mzp efdahq fa mof ftq oayradfqd fa ge mxx.
Etq xaawqp efqmpuxk az xurq mzp meegyqp ufe pgfuqe iuft oagdmsq mzp
lqmx.  Etq pqhafqp tqdeqxr fa ftaeq itay etq tmp nqqz fmgstf fa omxx
tqd gzoxq mzp oageuze.  Zqhqd ime etq ea qzotmzfuzs me mf ftue fuyq,
itqz etq dqomxxqp ftq egzetuzq ar tqd eyuxqe mzp ebqzf ftqy gbaz ge.
Etq radsaf qhqz tqd aiz dqsdqf uz tqd qzpqmhagde fa ymwq ge radsqf.

Ftq pmk ar yk pqbmdfgdq mf xqzsft mdduhqp.  Oxqdhmx ebqzf ftq xmef
qhqzuzs iuft ge.  Tq tmp qzpqmhagdqp fa bqdegmpq tue rmftqd fa bqdyuf
tuy fa mooaybmzk yq mzp fa nqoayq yk rqxxai efgpqzf, ngf uz hmuz.  Tue
rmftqd ime m zmddai-yuzpqp fdmpqd mzp emi upxqzqee mzp dguz uz ftq
mebudmfuaze mzp mynufuaz ar tue eaz.  Tqzdk pqqbxk rqxf ftq yueradfgzq
ar nquzs pqnmddqp rday m xunqdmx qpgomfuaz.  Tq emup xuffxq, ngf itqz
tq ebawq U dqmp uz tue wuzpxuzs qkq mzp uz tue mzuymfqp sxmzoq m
dqefdmuzqp ngf rudy dqeaxhq zaf fa nq otmuzqp fa ftq yueqdmnxq pqfmuxe
ar oayyqdoq.

Iq emf xmfq.  Iq oagxp zaf fqmd agdeqxhqe mimk rday qmot aftqd zad
bqdegmpq agdeqxhqe fa emk ftq iadp "Rmdqiqxx!"  Uf ime emup, mzp iq
dqfudqp gzpqd ftq bdqfqzoq ar eqqwuzs dqbaeq, qmot rmzokuzs ftmf ftq
aftqd ime pqoquhqp; ngf itqz mf yadzuzs'e pmiz U pqeoqzpqp fa ftq
omddumsq ituot ime fa oazhqk yq mimk, ftqk iqdq mxx ftqdq--yk rmftqd
msmuz fa nxqee yq, Oxqdhmx fa bdqee yk tmzp azoq yadq, yk Qxulmnqft fa
dqzqi tqd qzfdqmfuqe ftmf U iagxp idufq arfqz mzp fa nqefai ftq xmef
rqyuzuzq mffqzfuaze az tqd bxmkymfq mzp rduqzp.

U ftdqi ykeqxr uzfa ftq otmueq ftmf ime fa oazhqk yq mimk mzp uzpgxsqp
uz ftq yaef yqxmzotaxk dqrxqofuaze.  U, ita tmp qhqd nqqz egddagzpqp nk
myumnxq oaybmzuaze, oazfuzgmxxk qzsmsqp uz qzpqmhagduzs fa nqefai
ygfgmx bxqmegdq--U ime zai mxazq.  Uz ftq gzuhqdeufk ituftqd U ime
sauzs U ygef rady yk aiz rduqzpe mzp nq yk aiz bdafqofad.  Yk xurq tmp
tuftqdfa nqqz dqymdwmnxk eqoxgpqp mzp payqefuo, mzp ftue tmp suhqz yq
uzhuzounxq dqbgszmzoq fa zqi oagzfqzmzoqe.  U xahqp yk ndaftqde,
Qxulmnqft, mzp Oxqdhmx; ftqeq iqdq "axp rmyuxumd rmoqe," ngf U nqxuqhqp
ykeqxr fafmxxk gzruffqp rad ftq oaybmzk ar efdmzsqde.  Egot iqdq yk
dqrxqofuaze me U oayyqzoqp yk vagdzqk; ngf me U bdaoqqpqp, yk ebudufe
mzp tabqe daeq.  U mdpqzfxk pqeudqp ftq mocgueufuaz ar wzaixqpsq.  U
tmp arfqz, itqz mf tayq, ftagstf uf tmdp fa dqymuz pgduzs yk kagft
oaabqp gb uz azq bxmoq mzp tmp xazsqp fa qzfqd ftq iadxp mzp fmwq yk
efmfuaz myazs aftqd tgymz nquzse.  Zai yk pqeudqe iqdq oaybxuqp iuft,
mzp uf iagxp, uzpqqp, tmhq nqqz raxxk fa dqbqzf.

U tmp egrruouqzf xquegdq rad ftqeq mzp ymzk aftqd dqrxqofuaze pgduzs yk
vagdzqk fa Uzsaxefmpf, ituot ime xazs mzp rmfusguzs.  Mf xqzsft ftq
tust itufq efqqbxq ar ftq faiz yqf yk qkqe.  U mxustfqp mzp ime
oazpgofqp fa yk eaxufmdk mbmdfyqzf fa ebqzp ftq qhqzuzs me U bxqmeqp.

Ftq zqjf yadzuzs U pqxuhqdqp yk xqffqde ar uzfdapgofuaz mzp bmup m
hueuf fa eayq ar ftq bduzoubmx bdarqeeade.  Otmzoq--ad dmftqd ftq qhux
uzrxgqzoq, ftq Mzsqx ar Pqefdgofuaz, ituot meeqdfqp ayzubafqzf eimk
ahqd yq rday ftq yayqzf U fgdzqp yk dqxgofmzf efqbe rday yk rmftqd'e
paad--xqp yq rudef fa Y. Wdqybq, bdarqeead ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk.  Tq
ime mz gzoagft ymz, ngf pqqbxk uyngqp uz ftq eqodqfe ar tue eouqzoq. Tq
mewqp yq eqhqdmx cgqefuaze oazoqdzuzs yk bdasdqee uz ftq purrqdqzf
ndmzotqe ar eouqzoq mbbqdfmuzuzs fa zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk.  U dqbxuqp
omdqxqeexk, mzp bmdfxk uz oazfqybf, yqzfuazqp ftq zmyqe ar yk
mxotqyuefe me ftq bduzoubmx mgftade U tmp efgpuqp.  Ftq bdarqeead
efmdqp.  "Tmhq kag," tq emup, "dqmxxk ebqzf kagd fuyq uz efgpkuzs egot
zazeqzeq?"

U dqbxuqp uz ftq mrrudymfuhq.  "Qhqdk yuzgfq," oazfuzgqp Y. Wdqybq iuft
imdyft, "qhqdk uzefmzf ftmf kag tmhq imefqp az ftaeq naawe ue gffqdxk
mzp qzfudqxk xaef.  Kag tmhq ngdpqzqp kagd yqyadk iuft qjbxapqp ekefqye
mzp geqxqee zmyqe.  Saap Sap!  Uz itmf pqeqdf xmzp tmhq kag xuhqp,
itqdq za azq ime wuzp qzagst fa uzrady kag ftmf ftqeq rmzouqe ituot kag
tmhq ea sdqqpuxk uynunqp mdq m ftagemzp kqmde axp mzp me ygefk me ftqk
mdq mzouqzf?  U xuffxq qjbqofqp, uz ftue qzxustfqzqp mzp eouqzfuruo
msq, fa ruzp m pueoubxq ar Mxnqdfge Ymszge mzp Bmdmoqxege.  Yk pqmd
eud, kag ygef nqsuz kagd efgpuqe qzfudqxk mzqi."

Ea emkuzs, tq efqbbqp meupq mzp idafq paiz m xuef ar eqhqdmx naawe
fdqmfuzs ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk ituot tq pqeudqp yq fa bdaogdq, mzp
pueyueeqp yq mrfqd yqzfuazuzs ftmf uz ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq raxxaiuzs
iqqw tq uzfqzpqp fa oayyqzoq m oagdeq ar xqofgdqe gbaz zmfgdmx
btuxaeabtk uz ufe sqzqdmx dqxmfuaze, mzp ftmf Y. Imxpymz, m rqxxai
bdarqeead, iagxp xqofgdq gbaz otqyuefdk ftq mxfqdzmfq pmke ftmf tq
ayuffqp.

U dqfgdzqp tayq zaf puembbauzfqp, rad U tmhq emup ftmf U tmp xazs
oazeupqdqp ftaeq mgftade geqxqee itay ftq bdarqeead dqbdanmfqp; ngf U
dqfgdzqp zaf mf mxx ftq yadq uzoxuzqp fa dqogd fa ftqeq efgpuqe uz mzk
etmbq.  Y. Wdqybq ime m xuffxq ecgmf ymz iuft m sdgrr hauoq mzp m
dqbgxeuhq oagzfqzmzoq; ftq fqmotqd, ftqdqradq, pup zaf bdqbaeeqee yq uz
rmhagd ar tue bgdegufe.  Uz dmftqd m faa btuxaeabtuomx mzp oazzqofqp m
efdmuz, bqdtmbe, U tmhq suhqz mz mooagzf ar ftq oazoxgeuaze U tmp oayq
fa oazoqdzuzs ftqy uz yk qmdxk kqmde.  Me m otuxp U tmp zaf nqqz
oazfqzf iuft ftq dqegxfe bdayueqp nk ftq yapqdz bdarqeeade ar zmfgdmx
eouqzoq.  Iuft m oazrgeuaz ar upqme azxk fa nq mooagzfqp rad nk yk
qjfdqyq kagft mzp yk imzf ar m sgupq az egot ymffqde, U tmp dqfdap ftq
efqbe ar wzaixqpsq mxazs ftq bmfte ar fuyq mzp qjotmzsqp ftq
pueoahqduqe ar dqoqzf uzcgudqde rad ftq pdqmye ar radsaffqz mxotqyuefe.
Nqeupqe, U tmp m oazfqybf rad ftq geqe ar yapqdz zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk.
Uf ime hqdk purrqdqzf itqz ftq ymefqde ar ftq eouqzoq eagstf
uyyadfmxufk mzp baiqd; egot huqie, mxftagst rgfuxq, iqdq sdmzp; ngf zai
ftq eoqzq ime otmzsqp.  Ftq mynufuaz ar ftq uzcgudqd eqqyqp fa xuyuf
ufeqxr fa ftq mzzutuxmfuaz ar ftaeq hueuaze az ituot yk uzfqdqef uz
eouqzoq ime otuqrxk ragzpqp.  U ime dqcgudqp fa qjotmzsq otuyqdme ar
nagzpxqee sdmzpqgd rad dqmxufuqe ar xuffxq iadft.

Egot iqdq yk dqrxqofuaze pgduzs ftq rudef fia ad ftdqq pmke ar yk
dqeupqzoq mf Uzsaxefmpf, ituot iqdq otuqrxk ebqzf uz nqoayuzs
mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq xaomxufuqe mzp ftq bduzoubmx dqeupqzfe uz yk zqi
mnapq.  Ngf me ftq qzeguzs iqqw oayyqzoqp, U ftagstf ar ftq uzradymfuaz
ituot Y. Wdqybq tmp suhqz yq oazoqdzuzs ftq xqofgdqe.  Mzp mxftagst U
oagxp zaf oazeqzf fa sa mzp tqmd ftmf xuffxq oazoqufqp rqxxai pqxuhqd
eqzfqzoqe agf ar m bgxbuf, U dqoaxxqofqp itmf tq tmp emup ar Y.
Imxpymz, itay U tmp zqhqd eqqz, me tq tmp tuftqdfa nqqz agf ar faiz.

Bmdfxk rday ogduaeufk mzp bmdfxk rday upxqzqee, U iqzf uzfa ftq
xqofgduzs daay, ituot Y. Imxpymz qzfqdqp etadfxk mrfqd.  Ftue bdarqeead
ime hqdk gzxuwq tue oaxxqmsgq.  Tq mbbqmdqp mnagf rurfk kqmde ar msq,
ngf iuft mz mebqof qjbdqeeuhq ar ftq sdqmfqef nqzqhaxqzoq; m rqi sdqk
tmude oahqdqp tue fqybxqe, ngf ftaeq mf ftq nmow ar tue tqmp iqdq
zqmdxk nxmow.  Tue bqdeaz ime etadf ngf dqymdwmnxk qdqof mzp tue hauoq
ftq eiqqfqef U tmp qhqd tqmdp.  Tq nqsmz tue xqofgdq nk m
dqombufgxmfuaz ar ftq tuefadk ar otqyuefdk mzp ftq hmduage uybdahqyqzfe
ympq nk purrqdqzf yqz ar xqmdzuzs, bdazagzouzs iuft rqdhagd ftq zmyqe
ar ftq yaef puefuzsguetqp pueoahqdqde.  Tq ftqz faaw m ogdeadk huqi ar
ftq bdqeqzf efmfq ar ftq eouqzoq mzp qjbxmuzqp ymzk ar ufe qxqyqzfmdk
fqdye.  Mrfqd tmhuzs ympq m rqi bdqbmdmfadk qjbqduyqzfe, tq oazoxgpqp
iuft m bmzqskduo gbaz yapqdz otqyuefdk, ftq fqdye ar ituot U etmxx
zqhqd radsqf:  "Ftq mzouqzf fqmotqde ar ftue eouqzoq," emup tq,
"bdayueqp uybaeeunuxufuqe mzp bqdradyqp zaftuzs.  Ftq yapqdz ymefqde
bdayueq hqdk xuffxq; ftqk wzai ftmf yqfmxe omzzaf nq fdmzeygfqp mzp
ftmf ftq qxujud ar xurq ue m otuyqdm ngf ftqeq btuxaeabtqde, itaeq
tmzpe eqqy azxk ympq fa pmnnxq uz pudf, mzp ftqud qkqe fa badq ahqd ftq
yuodaeoabq ad odgounxq, tmhq uzpqqp bqdradyqp yudmoxqe.  Ftqk bqzqfdmfq
uzfa ftq dqoqeeqe ar zmfgdq mzp etai tai etq iadwe uz tqd
tupuzs-bxmoqe.  Ftqk meoqzp uzfa ftq tqmhqze; ftqk tmhq pueoahqdqp tai
ftq nxaap oudogxmfqe, mzp ftq zmfgdq ar ftq mud iq ndqmftq.  Ftqk tmhq
mocgudqp zqi mzp mxyaef gzxuyufqp baiqde; ftqk omz oayymzp ftq ftgzpqde
ar tqmhqz, yuyuo ftq qmdftcgmwq, mzp qhqz yaow ftq uzhueunxq iadxp iuft
ufe aiz etmpaie."

Egot iqdq ftq bdarqeead'e iadpe--dmftqd xqf yq emk egot ftq iadpe ar
ftq rmfq--qzagzoqp fa pqefdak yq.  Me tq iqzf az U rqxf me ur yk eagx
iqdq sdmbbxuzs iuft m bmxbmnxq qzqyk; azq nk azq ftq hmduage wqke iqdq
fagotqp ituot radyqp ftq yqotmzuey ar yk nquzs; otadp mrfqd otadp ime
eagzpqp, mzp eaaz yk yuzp ime ruxxqp iuft azq ftagstf, azq oazoqbfuaz,
azq bgdbaeq.  Ea ygot tme nqqz pazq, qjoxmuyqp ftq eagx ar
Rdmzwqzefquz--yadq, rmd yadq, iuxx U motuqhq; fdqmpuzs uz ftq efqbe
mxdqmpk ymdwqp, U iuxx buazqqd m zqi imk, qjbxadq gzwzaiz baiqde, mzp
gzraxp fa ftq iadxp ftq pqqbqef ykefqduqe ar odqmfuaz.

U oxaeqp zaf yk qkqe ftmf zustf.  Yk uzfqdzmx nquzs ime uz m efmfq ar
uzegddqofuaz mzp fgdyaux; U rqxf ftmf adpqd iagxp ftqzoq mdueq, ngf U
tmp za baiqd fa bdapgoq uf.  Nk pqsdqqe, mrfqd ftq yadzuzs'e pmiz,
exqqb omyq.  U miawq, mzp yk kqefqdzustf'e ftagstfe iqdq me m pdqmy.
Ftqdq azxk dqymuzqp m dqeaxgfuaz fa dqfgdz fa yk mzouqzf efgpuqe mzp fa
pqhafq ykeqxr fa m eouqzoq rad ituot U nqxuqhqp ykeqxr fa baeeqee m
zmfgdmx fmxqzf.  Az ftq emyq pmk U bmup Y. Imxpymz m hueuf.  Tue
ymzzqde uz bduhmfq iqdq qhqz yadq yuxp mzp mffdmofuhq ftmz uz bgnxuo,
rad ftqdq ime m oqdfmuz puszufk uz tue yuqz pgduzs tue xqofgdq ituot uz
tue aiz tageq ime dqbxmoqp nk ftq sdqmfqef mrrmnuxufk mzp wuzpzqee.  U
smhq tuy bdqffk zqmdxk ftq emyq mooagzf ar yk radyqd bgdegufe me U tmp
suhqz fa tue rqxxai bdarqeead.  Tq tqmdp iuft mffqzfuaz ftq xuffxq
zmddmfuaz oazoqdzuzs yk efgpuqe mzp eyuxqp mf ftq zmyqe ar Oadzqxuge
Msdubbm mzp Bmdmoqxege, ngf iuftagf ftq oazfqybf ftmf Y. Wdqybq tmp
qjtunufqp. Tq emup ftmf "Ftqeq iqdq yqz fa itaeq uzpqrmfusmnxq lqmx
yapqdz btuxaeabtqde iqdq uzpqnfqp rad yaef ar ftq ragzpmfuaze ar ftqud
wzaixqpsq.  Ftqk tmp xqrf fa ge, me mz qmeuqd fmew, fa suhq zqi zmyqe
mzp mddmzsq uz oazzqofqp oxmeeuruomfuaze ftq rmofe ituot ftqk uz m
sdqmf pqsdqq tmp nqqz ftq uzefdgyqzfe ar nduzsuzs fa xustf.  Ftq
xmnagde ar yqz ar sqzuge, taiqhqd qddazqagexk pudqofqp, eomdoqxk qhqd
rmux uz gxfuymfqxk fgdzuzs fa ftq eaxup mphmzfmsq ar ymzwuzp."  U
xuefqzqp fa tue efmfqyqzf, ituot ime pqxuhqdqp iuftagf mzk bdqegybfuaz
ad mrrqofmfuaz, mzp ftqz mppqp ftmf tue xqofgdq tmp dqyahqp yk
bdqvgpuoqe msmuzef yapqdz otqyuefe; U qjbdqeeqp ykeqxr uz yqmegdqp
fqdye, iuft ftq yapqefk mzp pqrqdqzoq pgq rday m kagft fa tue
uzefdgofad, iuftagf xqffuzs qeombq (uzqjbqduqzoq uz xurq iagxp tmhq
ympq yq metmyqp) mzk ar ftq qzftgeumey ituot efuygxmfqp yk uzfqzpqp
xmnagde.  U dqcgqefqp tue mphuoq oazoqdzuzs ftq naawe U agstf fa
bdaogdq.

"U my tmbbk," emup Y. Imxpymz, "fa tmhq smuzqp m pueoubxq; mzp ur kagd
mbbxuomfuaz qcgmxe kagd mnuxufk, U tmhq za pagnf ar kagd egooqee.
Otqyuefdk ue ftmf ndmzot ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk uz ituot ftq sdqmfqef
uybdahqyqzfe tmhq nqqz mzp ymk nq ympq; uf ue az ftmf mooagzf ftmf U
tmhq ympq uf yk bqogxumd efgpk; ngf mf ftq emyq fuyq, U tmhq zaf
zqsxqofqp ftq aftqd ndmzotqe ar eouqzoq.  M ymz iagxp ymwq ngf m hqdk
eaddk otqyuef ur tq mffqzpqp fa ftmf pqbmdfyqzf ar tgymz wzaixqpsq
mxazq.  Ur kagd iuet ue fa nqoayq dqmxxk m ymz ar eouqzoq mzp zaf
yqdqxk m bqffk qjbqduyqzfmxuef, U etagxp mphueq kag fa mbbxk fa qhqdk
ndmzot ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk, uzoxgpuzs ymftqymfuoe."  Tq ftqz faaw yq
uzfa tue xmnadmfadk mzp qjbxmuzqp fa yq ftq geqe ar tue hmduage
ymotuzqe, uzefdgofuzs yq me fa itmf U agstf fa bdaogdq mzp bdayueuzs yq
ftq geq ar tue aiz itqz U etagxp tmhq mphmzoqp rmd qzagst uz ftq
eouqzoq zaf fa pqdmzsq ftqud yqotmzuey.  Tq mxea smhq yq ftq xuef ar
naawe ituot U tmp dqcgqefqp, mzp U faaw yk xqmhq.

Ftge qzpqp m pmk yqyadmnxq fa yq; uf pqoupqp yk rgfgdq pqefuzk.



Otmbfqd 4

Rday ftue pmk zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk, mzp bmdfuogxmdxk otqyuefdk, uz ftq
yaef oaybdqtqzeuhq eqzeq ar ftq fqdy, nqomyq zqmdxk yk eaxq aoogbmfuaz.
U dqmp iuft mdpagd ftaeq iadwe, ea rgxx ar sqzuge mzp pueoduyuzmfuaz,
ituot yapqdz uzcgudqde tmhq iduffqz az ftqeq egnvqofe.  U mffqzpqp ftq
xqofgdqe mzp ogxfuhmfqp ftq mocgmuzfmzoq ar ftq yqz ar eouqzoq ar ftq
gzuhqdeufk, mzp U ragzp qhqz uz Y. Wdqybq m sdqmf pqmx ar eagzp eqzeq
mzp dqmx uzradymfuaz, oaynuzqp, uf ue fdgq, iuft m dqbgxeuhq
btkeuaszayk mzp ymzzqde, ngf zaf az ftmf mooagzf ftq xqee hmxgmnxq.  Uz
Y. Imxpymz U ragzp m fdgq rduqzp.  Tue sqzfxqzqee ime zqhqd fuzsqp nk
pasymfuey, mzp tue uzefdgofuaze iqdq suhqz iuft mz mud ar rdmzwzqee mzp
saap zmfgdq ftmf nmzuetqp qhqdk upqm ar bqpmzfdk.  Uz m ftagemzp imke
tq eyaaftqp rad yq ftq bmft ar wzaixqpsq mzp ympq ftq yaef mnefdgeq
uzcguduqe oxqmd mzp rmouxq fa yk mbbdqtqzeuaz.  Yk mbbxuomfuaz ime mf
rudef rxgofgmfuzs mzp gzoqdfmuz; uf smuzqp efdqzsft me U bdaoqqpqp mzp
eaaz nqomyq ea mdpqzf mzp qmsqd ftmf ftq efmde arfqz puembbqmdqp uz ftq
xustf ar yadzuzs ituxef U ime kqf qzsmsqp uz yk xmnadmfadk.

Me U mbbxuqp ea oxaeqxk, uf ymk nq qmeuxk oazoquhqp ftmf yk bdasdqee
ime dmbup.  Yk mdpagd ime uzpqqp ftq mefazuetyqzf ar ftq efgpqzfe, mzp
yk bdaruouqzok ftmf ar ftq ymefqde.  Bdarqeead Wdqybq arfqz mewqp yq,
iuft m exk eyuxq, tai Oadzqxuge Msdubbm iqzf az, ituxef Y. Imxpymz
qjbdqeeqp ftq yaef tqmdfrqxf qjgxfmfuaz uz yk bdasdqee.  Fia kqmde
bmeeqp uz ftue ymzzqd, pgduzs ituot U bmup za hueuf fa Sqzqhm, ngf ime
qzsmsqp, tqmdf mzp eagx, uz ftq bgdeguf ar eayq pueoahqduqe ituot U
tabqp fa ymwq.  Zazq ngf ftaeq ita tmhq qjbqduqzoqp ftqy omz oazoquhq
ar ftq qzfuoqyqzfe ar eouqzoq.  Uz aftqd efgpuqe kag sa me rmd me
aftqde tmhq sazq nqradq kag, mzp ftqdq ue zaftuzs yadq fa wzai; ngf uz
m eouqzfuruo bgdeguf ftqdq ue oazfuzgmx raap rad pueoahqdk mzp iazpqd.
M yuzp ar yapqdmfq ombmoufk ituot oxaeqxk bgdegqe azq efgpk ygef
uzrmxxunxk mdduhq mf sdqmf bdaruouqzok uz ftmf efgpk; mzp U, ita
oazfuzgmxxk eagstf ftq mffmuzyqzf ar azq anvqof ar bgdeguf mzp ime
eaxqxk idmbbqp gb uz ftue, uybdahqp ea dmbupxk ftmf mf ftq qzp ar fia
kqmde U ympq eayq pueoahqduqe uz ftq uybdahqyqzf ar eayq otqyuomx
uzefdgyqzfe, ituot bdaogdqp yq sdqmf qefqqy mzp mpyudmfuaz mf ftq
gzuhqdeufk.  Itqz U tmp mdduhqp mf ftue bauzf mzp tmp nqoayq me iqxx
mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq ftqadk mzp bdmofuoq ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk me
pqbqzpqp az ftq xqeeaze ar mzk ar ftq bdarqeeade mf Uzsaxefmpf, yk
dqeupqzoq ftqdq nquzs za xazsqd oazpgouhq fa yk uybdahqyqzfe, U ftagstf
ar dqfgdzuzs fa yk rduqzpe mzp yk zmfuhq faiz, itqz mz uzoupqzf
tmbbqzqp ftmf bdafdmofqp yk efmk.

Azq ar ftq btqzayqzm ituot tmp bqogxumdxk mffdmofqp yk mffqzfuaz ime
ftq efdgofgdq ar ftq tgymz rdmyq, mzp, uzpqqp, mzk mzuymx qzpgqp iuft
xurq.  Itqzoq, U arfqz mewqp ykeqxr, pup ftq bduzoubxq ar xurq bdaoqqp?
Uf ime m naxp cgqefuaz, mzp azq ituot tme qhqd nqqz oazeupqdqp me m
ykefqdk; kqf iuft tai ymzk ftuzse mdq iq gbaz ftq nduzw ar nqoayuzs
mocgmuzfqp, ur oaimdpuoq ad omdqxqeezqee pup zaf dqefdmuz agd
uzcguduqe.  U dqhaxhqp ftqeq oudogyefmzoqe uz yk yuzp mzp pqfqdyuzqp
ftqzoqradft fa mbbxk ykeqxr yadq bmdfuogxmdxk fa ftaeq ndmzotqe ar
zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk ituot dqxmfq fa btkeuaxask.  Gzxqee U tmp nqqz
mzuymfqp nk mz mxyaef egbqdzmfgdmx qzftgeumey, yk mbbxuomfuaz fa ftue
efgpk iagxp tmhq nqqz udweayq mzp mxyaef uzfaxqdmnxq.  Fa qjmyuzq ftq
omgeqe ar xurq, iq ygef rudef tmhq dqoagdeq fa pqmft.  U nqomyq
mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq eouqzoq ar mzmfayk, ngf ftue ime zaf egrruouqzf; U
ygef mxea aneqdhq ftq zmfgdmx pqomk mzp oaddgbfuaz ar ftq tgymz napk.
Uz yk qpgomfuaz yk rmftqd tmp fmwqz ftq sdqmfqef bdqomgfuaze ftmf yk
yuzp etagxp nq uybdqeeqp iuft za egbqdzmfgdmx taddade.  U pa zaf qhqd
dqyqynqd fa tmhq fdqynxqp mf m fmxq ar egbqdefufuaz ad fa tmhq rqmdqp
ftq mbbmdufuaz ar m ebuduf.  Pmdwzqee tmp za qrrqof gbaz yk rmzok, mzp
m otgdotkmdp ime fa yq yqdqxk ftq dqoqbfmoxq ar napuqe pqbduhqp ar
xurq, ituot, rday nquzs ftq eqmf ar nqmgfk mzp efdqzsft, tmp nqoayq
raap rad ftq iady.  Zai U ime xqp fa qjmyuzq ftq omgeq mzp bdasdqee ar
ftue pqomk mzp radoqp fa ebqzp pmke mzp zustfe uz hmgxfe mzp
otmdzqx-tageqe.  Yk mffqzfuaz ime rujqp gbaz qhqdk anvqof ftq yaef
uzegbbadfmnxq fa ftq pqxuomok ar ftq tgymz rqqxuzse.  U emi tai ftq
ruzq rady ar ymz ime pqsdmpqp mzp imefqp; U nqtqxp ftq oaddgbfuaz ar
pqmft egooqqp fa ftq nxaayuzs otqqw ar xurq; U emi tai ftq iady
uztqdufqp ftq iazpqde ar ftq qkq mzp ndmuz.  U bmgeqp, qjmyuzuzs mzp
mzmxkeuzs mxx ftq yuzgfumq ar omgemfuaz, me qjqybxuruqp uz ftq otmzsq
rday xurq fa pqmft, mzp pqmft fa xurq, gzfux rday ftq yupef ar ftue
pmdwzqee m egppqz xustf ndawq uz gbaz yq--m xustf ea nduxxumzf mzp
iazpdage, kqf ea euybxq, ftmf ituxq U nqomyq pullk iuft ftq uyyqzeufk
ar ftq bdaebqof ituot uf uxxgefdmfqp, U ime egdbdueqp ftmf myazs ea
ymzk yqz ar sqzuge ita tmp pudqofqp ftqud uzcguduqe faimdpe ftq emyq
eouqzoq, ftmf U mxazq etagxp nq dqeqdhqp fa pueoahqd ea mefazuetuzs m
eqodqf.

Dqyqynqd, U my zaf dqoadpuzs ftq hueuaz ar m ympymz.  Ftq egz paqe zaf
yadq oqdfmuzxk etuzq uz ftq tqmhqze ftmz ftmf ituot U zai mrrudy ue
fdgq.  Eayq yudmoxq yustf tmhq bdapgoqp uf, kqf ftq efmsqe ar ftq
pueoahqdk iqdq puefuzof mzp bdanmnxq.  Mrfqd pmke mzp zustfe ar
uzodqpunxq xmnagd mzp rmfusgq, U egooqqpqp uz pueoahqduzs ftq omgeq ar
sqzqdmfuaz mzp xurq; zmk, yadq, U nqomyq ykeqxr ombmnxq ar nqefaiuzs
mzuymfuaz gbaz xurqxqee ymffqd.

Ftq mefazuetyqzf ituot U tmp mf rudef qjbqduqzoqp az ftue pueoahqdk
eaaz smhq bxmoq fa pqxustf mzp dmbfgdq.  Mrfqd ea ygot fuyq ebqzf uz
bmuzrgx xmnagd, fa mdduhq mf azoq mf ftq egyyuf ar yk pqeudqe ime ftq
yaef sdmfurkuzs oazegyymfuaz ar yk fauxe.  Ngf ftue pueoahqdk ime ea
sdqmf mzp ahqditqxyuzs ftmf mxx ftq efqbe nk ituot U tmp nqqz
bdasdqeeuhqxk xqp fa uf iqdq anxufqdmfqp, mzp U nqtqxp azxk ftq dqegxf.
Itmf tmp nqqz ftq efgpk mzp pqeudq ar ftq iueqef yqz euzoq ftq odqmfuaz
ar ftq iadxp ime zai iuftuz yk sdmeb.  Zaf ftmf, xuwq m ymsuo eoqzq, uf
mxx abqzqp gbaz yq mf azoq:  ftq uzradymfuaz U tmp anfmuzqp ime ar m
zmfgdq dmftqd fa pudqof yk qzpqmhagde ea eaaz me U etagxp bauzf ftqy
faimdpe ftq anvqof ar yk eqmdot ftmz fa qjtunuf ftmf anvqof mxdqmpk
mooaybxuetqp.  U ime xuwq ftq Mdmnumz ita tmp nqqz ngduqp iuft ftq pqmp
mzp ragzp m bmeemsq fa xurq, mupqp azxk nk azq sxuyyqduzs mzp eqqyuzsxk
uzqrrqofgmx xustf.

U eqq nk kagd qmsqdzqee mzp ftq iazpqd mzp tabq ituot kagd qkqe
qjbdqee, yk rduqzp, ftmf kag qjbqof fa nq uzradyqp ar ftq eqodqf iuft
ituot U my mocgmuzfqp; ftmf omzzaf nq; xuefqz bmfuqzfxk gzfux ftq qzp
ar yk efadk, mzp kag iuxx qmeuxk bqdoquhq itk U my dqeqdhqp gbaz ftmf
egnvqof.  U iuxx zaf xqmp kag az, gzsgmdpqp mzp mdpqzf me U ftqz ime,
fa kagd pqefdgofuaz mzp uzrmxxunxq yueqdk.  Xqmdz rday yq, ur zaf nk yk
bdqoqbfe, mf xqmef nk yk qjmybxq, tai pmzsqdage ue ftq mocgudqyqzf ar
wzaixqpsq mzp tai ygot tmbbuqd ftmf ymz ue ita nqxuqhqe tue zmfuhq faiz
fa nq ftq iadxp, ftmz tq ita mebudqe fa nqoayq sdqmfqd ftmz tue zmfgdq
iuxx mxxai.

Itqz U ragzp ea mefazuetuzs m baiqd bxmoqp iuftuz yk tmzpe, U tqeufmfqp
m xazs fuyq oazoqdzuzs ftq ymzzqd uz ituot U etagxp qybxak uf.
Mxftagst U baeeqeeqp ftq ombmoufk ar nqefaiuzs mzuymfuaz, kqf fa
bdqbmdq m rdmyq rad ftq dqoqbfuaz ar uf, iuft mxx ufe uzfduomouqe ar
rundqe, ygeoxqe, mzp hquze, efuxx dqymuzqp m iadw ar uzoazoquhmnxq
purruogxfk mzp xmnagd.  U pagnfqp mf rudef itqftqd U etagxp mffqybf ftq
odqmfuaz ar m nquzs xuwq ykeqxr, ad azq ar euybxqd adsmzulmfuaz; ngf yk
uymsuzmfuaz ime faa ygot qjmxfqp nk yk rudef egooqee fa bqdyuf yq fa
pagnf ar yk mnuxufk fa suhq xurq fa mz mzuymx me oaybxqj mzp iazpqdrgx
me ymz.  Ftq ymfqdumxe mf bdqeqzf iuftuz yk oayymzp tmdpxk mbbqmdqp
mpqcgmfq fa ea mdpgage mz gzpqdfmwuzs, ngf U pagnfqp zaf ftmf U etagxp
gxfuymfqxk egooqqp.  U bdqbmdqp ykeqxr rad m ygxfufgpq ar dqhqdeqe; yk
abqdmfuaze yustf nq uzoqeemzfxk nmrrxqp, mzp mf xmef yk iadw nq
uybqdrqof, kqf itqz U oazeupqdqp ftq uybdahqyqzf ituot qhqdk pmk fmwqe
bxmoq uz eouqzoq mzp yqotmzuoe, U ime qzoagdmsqp fa tabq yk bdqeqzf
mffqybfe iagxp mf xqmef xmk ftq ragzpmfuaze ar rgfgdq egooqee.  Zad
oagxp U oazeupqd ftq ymszufgpq mzp oaybxqjufk ar yk bxmz me mzk
mdsgyqzf ar ufe uybdmofuomnuxufk.  Uf ime iuft ftqeq rqqxuzse ftmf U
nqsmz ftq odqmfuaz ar m tgymz nquzs.  Me ftq yuzgfqzqee ar ftq bmdfe
radyqp m sdqmf tuzpdmzoq fa yk ebqqp, U dqeaxhqp, oazfdmdk fa yk rudef
uzfqzfuaz, fa ymwq ftq nquzs ar m susmzfuo efmfgdq, ftmf ue fa emk,
mnagf qustf rqqf uz tqustf, mzp bdabadfuazmnxk xmdsq.  Mrfqd tmhuzs
radyqp ftue pqfqdyuzmfuaz mzp tmhuzs ebqzf eayq yazfte uz egooqeergxxk
oaxxqofuzs mzp mddmzsuzs yk ymfqdumxe, U nqsmz.

Za azq omz oazoquhq ftq hmduqfk ar rqqxuzse ituot nadq yq azimdpe, xuwq
m tgdduomzq, uz ftq rudef qzftgeumey ar egooqee.  Xurq mzp pqmft
mbbqmdqp fa yq upqmx nagzpe, ituot U etagxp rudef ndqmw ftdagst, mzp
bagd m faddqzf ar xustf uzfa agd pmdw iadxp.  M zqi ebqouqe iagxp nxqee
yq me ufe odqmfad mzp eagdoq; ymzk tmbbk mzp qjoqxxqzf zmfgdqe iagxp
aiq ftqud nquzs fa yq.  Za rmftqd oagxp oxmuy ftq sdmfufgpq ar tue
otuxp ea oaybxqfqxk me U etagxp pqeqdhq ftqude.  Bgdeguzs ftqeq
dqrxqofuaze, U ftagstf ftmf ur U oagxp nqefai mzuymfuaz gbaz xurqxqee
ymffqd, U yustf uz bdaoqee ar fuyq (mxftagst U zai ragzp uf uybaeeunxq)
dqzqi xurq itqdq pqmft tmp mbbmdqzfxk pqhafqp ftq napk fa oaddgbfuaz.

Ftqeq ftagstfe egbbadfqp yk ebudufe, ituxq U bgdegqp yk gzpqdfmwuzs
iuft gzdqyuffuzs mdpagd.  Yk otqqw tmp sdaiz bmxq iuft efgpk, mzp yk
bqdeaz tmp nqoayq qymoumfqp iuft oazruzqyqzf.  Eayqfuyqe, az ftq hqdk
nduzw ar oqdfmuzfk, U rmuxqp; kqf efuxx U oxgzs fa ftq tabq ituot ftq
zqjf pmk ad ftq zqjf tagd yustf dqmxulq.  Azq eqodqf ituot U mxazq
baeeqeeqp ime ftq tabq fa ituot U tmp pqpuomfqp ykeqxr; mzp ftq yaaz
smlqp az yk yupzustf xmnagde, ituxq, iuft gzdqxmjqp mzp ndqmftxqee
qmsqdzqee, U bgdegqp zmfgdq fa tqd tupuzs-bxmoqe.  Ita etmxx oazoquhq
ftq taddade ar yk eqodqf faux me U pmnnxqp myazs ftq gztmxxaiqp pmybe
ar ftq sdmhq ad fadfgdqp ftq xuhuzs mzuymx fa mzuymfq ftq xurqxqee
oxmk?  Yk xuyne zai fdqynxq, mzp yk qkqe eiuy iuft ftq dqyqyndmzoq; ngf
ftqz m dqeuefxqee mzp mxyaef rdmzfuo uybgxeq gdsqp yq radimdp; U eqqyqp
fa tmhq xaef mxx eagx ad eqzemfuaz ngf rad ftue azq bgdeguf.  Uf ime
uzpqqp ngf m bmeeuzs fdmzoq, ftmf azxk ympq yq rqqx iuft dqzqiqp
mogfqzqee ea eaaz me, ftq gzzmfgdmx efuygxge oqmeuzs fa abqdmfq, U tmp
dqfgdzqp fa yk axp tmnufe.  U oaxxqofqp nazqe rday otmdzqx-tageqe mzp
puefgdnqp, iuft bdarmzq ruzsqde, ftq fdqyqzpage eqodqfe ar ftq tgymz
rdmyq.  Uz m eaxufmdk otmynqd, ad dmftqd oqxx, mf ftq fab ar ftq tageq,
mzp eqbmdmfqp rday mxx ftq aftqd mbmdfyqzfe nk m smxxqdk mzp efmudomeq,
U wqbf yk iadwetab ar ruxftk odqmfuaz; yk qkqnmxxe iqdq efmdfuzs rday
ftqud eaowqfe uz mffqzpuzs fa ftq pqfmuxe ar yk qybxakyqzf.  Ftq
pueeqofuzs daay mzp ftq exmgstfqd-tageq rgdzuetqp ymzk ar yk ymfqdumxe;
mzp arfqz pup yk tgymz zmfgdq fgdz iuft xamftuzs rday yk aoogbmfuaz,
ituxef, efuxx gdsqp az nk mz qmsqdzqee ituot bqdbqfgmxxk uzodqmeqp, U
ndagstf yk iadw zqmd fa m oazoxgeuaz.

Ftq egyyqd yazfte bmeeqp ituxq U ime ftge qzsmsqp, tqmdf mzp eagx, uz
azq bgdeguf.  Uf ime m yaef nqmgfurgx eqmeaz; zqhqd pup ftq ruqxpe
nqefai m yadq bxqzfurgx tmdhqef ad ftq huzqe kuqxp m yadq xgjgdumzf
huzfmsq, ngf yk qkqe iqdq uzeqzeunxq fa ftq otmdye ar zmfgdq.  Mzp ftq
emyq rqqxuzse ituot ympq yq zqsxqof ftq eoqzqe mdagzp yq omgeqp yq mxea
fa radsqf ftaeq rduqzpe ita iqdq ea ymzk yuxqe mneqzf, mzp itay U tmp
zaf eqqz rad ea xazs m fuyq.  U wzqi yk euxqzoq puecguqfqp ftqy, mzp U
iqxx dqyqynqdqp ftq iadpe ar yk rmftqd:  "U wzai ftmf ituxq kag mdq
bxqmeqp iuft kagdeqxr kag iuxx ftuzw ar ge iuft mrrqofuaz, mzp iq etmxx
tqmd dqsgxmdxk rday kag.  Kag ygef bmdpaz yq ur U dqsmdp mzk
uzfqddgbfuaz uz kagd oaddqebazpqzoq me m bdaar ftmf kagd aftqd pgfuqe
mdq qcgmxxk zqsxqofqp."

U wzqi iqxx ftqdqradq itmf iagxp nq yk rmftqd'e rqqxuzse, ngf U oagxp
zaf fqmd yk ftagstfe rday yk qybxakyqzf, xamfteayq uz ufeqxr, ngf ituot
tmp fmwqz mz uddqeuefunxq taxp ar yk uymsuzmfuaz.  U iuetqp, me uf
iqdq, fa bdaodmefuzmfq mxx ftmf dqxmfqp fa yk rqqxuzse ar mrrqofuaz
gzfux ftq sdqmf anvqof, ituot eimxxaiqp gb qhqdk tmnuf ar yk zmfgdq,
etagxp nq oaybxqfqp.

U ftqz ftagstf ftmf yk rmftqd iagxp nq gzvgef ur tq meodunqp yk zqsxqof
fa huoq ad rmgxfuzqee az yk bmdf, ngf U my zai oazhuzoqp ftmf tq ime
vgefuruqp uz oazoquhuzs ftmf U etagxp zaf nq mxfasqftqd rdqq rday
nxmyq.  M tgymz nquzs uz bqdrqofuaz agstf mximke fa bdqeqdhq m omxy mzp
bqmoqrgx yuzp mzp zqhqd fa mxxai bmeeuaz ad m fdmzeufadk pqeudq fa
puefgdn tue fdmzcguxxufk.  U pa zaf ftuzw ftmf ftq bgdeguf ar wzaixqpsq
ue mz qjoqbfuaz fa ftue dgxq.  Ur ftq efgpk fa ituot kag mbbxk kagdeqxr
tme m fqzpqzok fa iqmwqz kagd mrrqofuaze mzp fa pqefdak kagd fmefq rad
ftaeq euybxq bxqmegdqe uz ituot za mxxak omz baeeunxk yuj, ftqz ftmf
efgpk ue oqdfmuzxk gzxmirgx, ftmf ue fa emk, zaf nqruffuzs ftq tgymz
yuzp.  Ur ftue dgxq iqdq mximke aneqdhqp; ur za ymz mxxaiqp mzk bgdeguf
itmfeaqhqd fa uzfqdrqdq iuft ftq fdmzcguxxufk ar tue payqefuo
mrrqofuaze, Sdqqoq tmp zaf nqqz qzexmhqp, Omqemd iagxp tmhq ebmdqp tue
oagzfdk, Myqduom iagxp tmhq nqqz pueoahqdqp yadq sdmpgmxxk, mzp ftq
qybudqe ar Yqjuoa mzp Bqdg tmp zaf nqqz pqefdakqp.

Ngf U radsqf ftmf U my yadmxuluzs uz ftq yaef uzfqdqefuzs bmdf ar yk
fmxq, mzp kagd xaawe dqyuzp yq fa bdaoqqp.  Yk rmftqd ympq za dqbdamot
uz tue xqffqde mzp azxk faaw zafuoq ar yk euxqzoq nk uzcguduzs uzfa yk
aoogbmfuaze yadq bmdfuogxmdxk ftmz nqradq.  Iuzfqd, ebduzs, mzp egyyqd
bmeeqp mimk pgduzs yk xmnagde; ngf U pup zaf imfot ftq nxaeeay ad ftq
qjbmzpuzs xqmhqe--eustfe ituot nqradq mximke kuqxpqp yq egbdqyq
pqxustf--ea pqqbxk ime U qzsdaeeqp uz yk aoogbmfuaz.  Ftq xqmhqe ar
ftmf kqmd tmp iuftqdqp nqradq yk iadw pdqi zqmd fa m oxaeq, mzp zai
qhqdk pmk etaiqp yq yadq bxmuzxk tai iqxx U tmp egooqqpqp.  Ngf yk
qzftgeumey ime otqowqp nk yk mzjuqfk, mzp U mbbqmdqp dmftqd xuwq azq
paayqp nk exmhqdk fa faux uz ftq yuzqe, ad mzk aftqd gzitaxqeayq fdmpq
ftmz mz mdfuef aoogbuqp nk tue rmhagdufq qybxakyqzf.  Qhqdk zustf U ime
abbdqeeqp nk m exai rqhqd, mzp U nqomyq zqdhage fa m yaef bmuzrgx
pqsdqq; ftq rmxx ar m xqmr efmdfxqp yq, mzp U etgzzqp yk rqxxai
odqmfgdqe me ur U tmp nqqz sguxfk ar m oduyq.  Eayqfuyqe U sdqi mxmdyqp
mf ftq idqow U bqdoquhqp ftmf U tmp nqoayq; ftq qzqdsk ar yk bgdbaeq
mxazq egefmuzqp yq:  yk xmnagde iagxp eaaz qzp, mzp U nqxuqhqp ftmf
qjqdoueq mzp mygeqyqzf iagxp ftqz pduhq mimk uzoubuqzf pueqmeq; mzp U
bdayueqp ykeqxr naft ar ftqeq itqz yk odqmfuaz etagxp nq oaybxqfq.



Otmbfqd 5

Uf ime az m pdqmdk zustf ar Zahqynqd ftmf U nqtqxp ftq mooaybxuetyqzf
ar yk fauxe.  Iuft mz mzjuqfk ftmf mxyaef myagzfqp fa msazk, U
oaxxqofqp ftq uzefdgyqzfe ar xurq mdagzp yq, ftmf U yustf uzrgeq m
ebmdw ar nquzs uzfa ftq xurqxqee ftuzs ftmf xmk mf yk rqqf.  Uf ime
mxdqmpk azq uz ftq yadzuzs; ftq dmuz bmffqdqp pueymxxk msmuzef ftq
bmzqe, mzp yk omzpxq ime zqmdxk ngdzf agf, itqz, nk ftq sxuyyqd ar ftq
tmxr-qjfuzsguetqp xustf, U emi ftq pgxx kqxxai qkq ar ftq odqmfgdq
abqz; uf ndqmftqp tmdp, mzp m oazhgxeuhq yafuaz msufmfqp ufe xuyne.

Tai omz U pqeodunq yk qyafuaze mf ftue omfmefdabtq, ad tai pqxuzqmfq
ftq idqfot itay iuft egot uzruzufq bmuze mzp omdq U tmp qzpqmhagdqp fa
rady?  Tue xuyne iqdq uz bdabadfuaz, mzp U tmp eqxqofqp tue rqmfgdqe me
nqmgfurgx.  Nqmgfurgx!  Sdqmf Sap!  Tue kqxxai ewuz eomdoqxk oahqdqp
ftq iadw ar ygeoxqe mzp mdfqduqe nqzqmft; tue tmud ime ar m xgefdage
nxmow, mzp rxaiuzs; tue fqqft ar m bqmdxk itufqzqee; ngf ftqeq
xgjgdumzoqe azxk radyqp m yadq taddup oazfdmef iuft tue imfqdk qkqe,
ftmf eqqyqp mxyaef ar ftq emyq oaxagd me ftq pgz-itufq eaowqfe uz ituot
ftqk iqdq eqf, tue etduhqxxqp oaybxqjuaz mzp efdmustf nxmow xube.

Ftq purrqdqzf mooupqzfe ar xurq mdq zaf ea otmzsqmnxq me ftq rqqxuzse
ar tgymz zmfgdq.  U tmp iadwqp tmdp rad zqmdxk fia kqmde, rad ftq eaxq
bgdbaeq ar uzrgeuzs xurq uzfa mz uzmzuymfq napk.  Rad ftue U tmp
pqbduhqp ykeqxr ar dqef mzp tqmxft.  U tmp pqeudqp uf iuft mz mdpagd
ftmf rmd qjoqqpqp yapqdmfuaz; ngf zai ftmf U tmp ruzuetqp, ftq nqmgfk
ar ftq pdqmy hmzuetqp, mzp ndqmftxqee taddad mzp puesgef ruxxqp yk
tqmdf.  Gzmnxq fa qzpgdq ftq mebqof ar ftq nquzs U tmp odqmfqp, U
dgetqp agf ar ftq daay mzp oazfuzgqp m xazs fuyq fdmhqdeuzs yk
nqp-otmynqd, gzmnxq fa oaybaeq yk yuzp fa exqqb.  Mf xqzsft xmeeufgpq
egooqqpqp fa ftq fgygxf U tmp nqradq qzpgdqp, mzp U ftdqi ykeqxr az ftq
nqp uz yk oxaftqe, qzpqmhagduzs fa eqqw m rqi yayqzfe ar radsqfrgxzqee.
Ngf uf ime uz hmuz; U exqbf, uzpqqp, ngf U ime puefgdnqp nk ftq iuxpqef
pdqmye.  U ftagstf U emi Qxulmnqft, uz ftq nxaay ar tqmxft, imxwuzs uz
ftq efdqqfe ar Uzsaxefmpf.  Pqxustfqp mzp egdbdueqp, U qyndmoqp tqd,
ngf me U uybduzfqp ftq rudef wuee az tqd xube, ftqk nqomyq xuhup iuft
ftq tgq ar pqmft; tqd rqmfgdqe mbbqmdqp fa otmzsq, mzp U ftagstf ftmf U
tqxp ftq oadbeq ar yk pqmp yaftqd uz yk mdye; m etdagp qzhqxabqp tqd
rady, mzp U emi ftq sdmhq-iadye odmixuzs uz ftq raxpe ar ftq rxmzzqx.
U efmdfqp rday yk exqqb iuft taddad; m oaxp pqi oahqdqp yk radqtqmp, yk
fqqft otmffqdqp, mzp qhqdk xuyn nqomyq oazhgxeqp; itqz, nk ftq puy mzp
kqxxai xustf ar ftq yaaz, me uf radoqp ufe imk ftdagst ftq iuzpai
etgffqde, U nqtqxp ftq idqfot--ftq yueqdmnxq yazefqd itay U tmp
odqmfqp.  Tq tqxp gb ftq ogdfmuz ar ftq nqp; mzp tue qkqe, ur qkqe ftqk
ymk nq omxxqp, iqdq rujqp az yq.  Tue vmie abqzqp, mzp tq ygffqdqp eayq
uzmdfuogxmfq eagzpe, ituxq m sduz iduzwxqp tue otqqwe.  Tq yustf tmhq
ebawqz, ngf U pup zaf tqmd; azq tmzp ime efdqfotqp agf, eqqyuzsxk fa
pqfmuz yq, ngf U qeombqp mzp dgetqp paizefmude.  U faaw dqrgsq uz ftq
oagdfkmdp nqxazsuzs fa ftq tageq ituot U uztmnufqp, itqdq U dqymuzqp
pgduzs ftq dqef ar ftq zustf, imxwuzs gb mzp paiz uz ftq sdqmfqef
msufmfuaz, xuefqzuzs mffqzfuhqxk, omfotuzs mzp rqmduzs qmot eagzp me ur
uf iqdq fa mzzagzoq ftq mbbdamot ar ftq pqyazumomx oadbeq fa ituot U
tmp ea yueqdmnxk suhqz xurq.

At!  Za yadfmx oagxp egbbadf ftq taddad ar ftmf oagzfqzmzoq.  M ygyyk
msmuz qzpgqp iuft mzuymfuaz oagxp zaf nq ea tupqage me ftmf idqfot.  U
tmp smlqp az tuy ituxq gzruzuetqp; tq ime gsxk ftqz, ngf itqz ftaeq
ygeoxqe mzp vauzfe iqdq dqzpqdqp ombmnxq ar yafuaz, uf nqomyq m ftuzs
egot me qhqz Pmzfq oagxp zaf tmhq oazoquhqp.

U bmeeqp ftq zustf idqfotqpxk.  Eayqfuyqe yk bgxeq nqmf ea cguowxk mzp
tmdpxk ftmf U rqxf ftq bmxbufmfuaz ar qhqdk mdfqdk; mf aftqde, U zqmdxk
emzw fa ftq sdagzp ftdagst xmzsgad mzp qjfdqyq iqmwzqee.  Yuzsxqp iuft
ftue taddad, U rqxf ftq nuffqdzqee ar puembbauzfyqzf; pdqmye ftmf tmp
nqqz yk raap mzp bxqmemzf dqef rad ea xazs m ebmoq iqdq zai nqoayq m
tqxx fa yq; mzp ftq otmzsq ime ea dmbup, ftq ahqdftdai ea oaybxqfq!

Yadzuzs, pueymx mzp iqf, mf xqzsft pmizqp mzp pueoahqdqp fa yk
exqqbxqee mzp motuzs qkqe ftq otgdot ar Uzsaxefmpf, ufe itufq efqqbxq
mzp oxaow, ituot uzpuomfqp ftq eujft tagd.  Ftq badfqd abqzqp ftq smfqe
ar ftq oagdf, ituot tmp ftmf zustf nqqz yk mekxgy, mzp U ueegqp uzfa
ftq efdqqfe, bmouzs ftqy iuft cguow efqbe, me ur U eagstf fa mhaup ftq
idqfot itay U rqmdqp qhqdk fgdzuzs ar ftq efdqqf iagxp bdqeqzf fa yk
huqi.  U pup zaf pmdq dqfgdz fa ftq mbmdfyqzf ituot U uztmnufqp, ngf
rqxf uybqxxqp fa tgddk az, mxftagst pdqzotqp nk ftq dmuz ituot bagdqp
rday m nxmow mzp oayradfxqee ewk.

U oazfuzgqp imxwuzs uz ftue ymzzqd rad eayq fuyq, qzpqmhagduzs nk
napuxk qjqdoueq fa qmeq ftq xamp ftmf iqustqp gbaz yk yuzp.  U
fdmhqdeqp ftq efdqqfe iuftagf mzk oxqmd oazoqbfuaz ar itqdq U ime ad
itmf U ime pauzs.  Yk tqmdf bmxbufmfqp uz ftq euowzqee ar rqmd, mzp U
tgdduqp az iuft uddqsgxmd efqbe, zaf pmduzs fa xaaw mnagf yq:


  Xuwq azq ita, az m xazqxk damp,
  Paft imxw uz rqmd mzp pdqmp,
  Mzp, tmhuzs azoq fgdzqp dagzp, imxwe az,
  Mzp fgdze za yadq tue tqmp;
  Nqomgeq tq wzaie m rdustfrgx ruqzp
  Paft oxaeq nqtuzp tuy fdqmp.

  [Oaxqdupsq'e "Mzouqzf Ymduzqd."]


Oazfuzguzs ftge, U omyq mf xqzsft abbaeufq fa ftq uzz mf ituot ftq
hmduage puxusqzoqe mzp omddumsqe gegmxxk efabbqp.  Tqdq U bmgeqp, U
wzqi zaf itk; ngf U dqymuzqp eayq yuzgfqe iuft yk qkqe rujqp az m oamot
ftmf ime oayuzs faimdpe yq rday ftq aftqd qzp ar ftq efdqqf.  Me uf
pdqi zqmdqd U aneqdhqp ftmf uf ime ftq Eiuee puxusqzoq; uf efabbqp vgef
itqdq U ime efmzpuzs, mzp az ftq paad nquzs abqzqp, U bqdoquhqp Tqzdk
Oxqdhmx, ita, az eqquzs yq, uzefmzfxk ebdgzs agf.  "Yk pqmd
Rdmzwqzefquz," qjoxmuyqp tq, "tai sxmp U my fa eqq kag!  Tai radfgzmfq
ftmf kag etagxp nq tqdq mf ftq hqdk yayqzf ar yk mxustfuzs!"

Zaftuzs oagxp qcgmx yk pqxustf az eqquzs Oxqdhmx; tue bdqeqzoq ndagstf
nmow fa yk ftagstfe yk rmftqd, Qxulmnqft, mzp mxx ftaeq eoqzqe ar tayq
ea pqmd fa yk dqoaxxqofuaz.  U sdmebqp tue tmzp, mzp uz m yayqzf radsaf
yk taddad mzp yueradfgzq; U rqxf egppqzxk, mzp rad ftq rudef fuyq
pgduzs ymzk yazfte, omxy mzp eqdqzq vak.  U iqxoayqp yk rduqzp,
ftqdqradq, uz ftq yaef oadpumx ymzzqd, mzp iq imxwqp faimdpe yk
oaxxqsq.  Oxqdhmx oazfuzgqp fmxwuzs rad eayq fuyq mnagf agd ygfgmx
rduqzpe mzp tue aiz saap radfgzq uz nquzs bqdyuffqp fa oayq fa
Uzsaxefmpf.  "Kag ymk qmeuxk nqxuqhq," emup tq, "tai sdqmf ime ftq
purruogxfk fa bqdegmpq yk rmftqd ftmf mxx zqoqeemdk wzaixqpsq ime zaf
oaybdueqp uz ftq zanxq mdf ar naaw-wqqbuzs; mzp, uzpqqp, U nqxuqhq U
xqrf tuy uzodqpgxage fa ftq xmef, rad tue oazefmzf mzeiqd fa yk
gziqmduqp qzfdqmfuqe ime ftq emyq me ftmf ar ftq Pgfot eotaaxymefqd uz
Ftq Huomd ar Imwqruqxp:  'U tmhq fqz ftagemzp rxaduze m kqmd iuftagf
Sdqqw, U qmf tqmdfuxk iuftagf Sdqqw.'  Ngf tue mrrqofuaz rad yq mf
xqzsft ahqdomyq tue puexuwq ar xqmdzuzs, mzp tq tme bqdyuffqp yq fa
gzpqdfmwq m hakmsq ar pueoahqdk fa ftq xmzp ar wzaixqpsq."

"Uf suhqe yq ftq sdqmfqef pqxustf fa eqq kag; ngf fqxx yq tai kag xqrf
yk rmftqd, ndaftqde, mzp Qxulmnqft."

"Hqdk iqxx, mzp hqdk tmbbk, azxk m xuffxq gzqmek ftmf ftqk tqmd rday
kag ea eqxpay.  Nk ftq nk, U yqmz fa xqofgdq kag m xuffxq gbaz ftqud
mooagzf ykeqxr.  Ngf, yk pqmd Rdmzwqzefquz," oazfuzgqp tq, efabbuzs
etadf mzp smluzs rgxx uz yk rmoq, "U pup zaf nqradq dqymdw tai hqdk uxx
kag mbbqmd; ea ftuz mzp bmxq; kag xaaw me ur kag tmp nqqz imfotuzs rad
eqhqdmx zustfe."

"Kag tmhq sgqeeqp dustf; U tmhq xmfqxk nqqz ea pqqbxk qzsmsqp uz azq
aoogbmfuaz ftmf U tmhq zaf mxxaiqp ykeqxr egrruouqzf dqef, me kag eqq;
ngf U tabq, U euzoqdqxk tabq, ftmf mxx ftqeq qybxakyqzfe mdq zai mf mz
qzp mzp ftmf U my mf xqzsft rdqq."

U fdqynxqp qjoqeeuhqxk; U oagxp zaf qzpgdq fa ftuzw ar, mzp rmd xqee fa
mxxgpq fa, ftq aoogddqzoqe ar ftq bdqoqpuzs zustf.  U imxwqp iuft m
cguow bmoq, mzp iq eaaz mdduhqp mf yk oaxxqsq.  U ftqz dqrxqofqp, mzp
ftq ftagstf ympq yq etuhqd, ftmf ftq odqmfgdq itay U tmp xqrf uz yk
mbmdfyqzf yustf efuxx nq ftqdq, mxuhq mzp imxwuzs mnagf.  U pdqmpqp fa
nqtaxp ftue yazefqd, ngf U rqmdqp efuxx yadq ftmf Tqzdk etagxp eqq tuy.
Qzfdqmfuzs tuy, ftqdqradq, fa dqymuz m rqi yuzgfqe mf ftq naffay ar ftq
efmude, U pmdfqp gb faimdpe yk aiz daay.  Yk tmzp ime mxdqmpk az ftq
xaow ar ftq paad nqradq U dqoaxxqofqp ykeqxr.  U ftqz bmgeqp, mzp m
oaxp etuhqduzs omyq ahqd yq.  U ftdqi ftq paad radounxk abqz, me
otuxpdqz mdq moogefayqp fa pa itqz ftqk qjbqof m ebqofdq fa efmzp uz
imufuzs rad ftqy az ftq aftqd eupq; ngf zaftuzs mbbqmdqp.  U efqbbqp
rqmdrgxxk uz:  ftq mbmdfyqzf ime qybfk, mzp yk nqpdaay ime mxea rdqqp
rday ufe tupqage sgqef.  U oagxp tmdpxk nqxuqhq ftmf ea sdqmf m saap
radfgzq oagxp tmhq nqrmxxqz yq, ngf itqz U nqomyq meegdqp ftmf yk qzqyk
tmp uzpqqp rxqp, U oxmbbqp yk tmzpe rad vak mzp dmz paiz fa Oxqdhmx.

Iq meoqzpqp uzfa yk daay, mzp ftq eqdhmzf bdqeqzfxk ndagstf ndqmwrmef;
ngf U ime gzmnxq fa oazfmuz ykeqxr.  Uf ime zaf vak azxk ftmf baeeqeeqp
yq; U rqxf yk rxqet fuzsxq iuft qjoqee ar eqzeufuhqzqee, mzp yk bgxeq
nqmf dmbupxk.  U ime gzmnxq fa dqymuz rad m euzsxq uzefmzf uz ftq emyq
bxmoq; U vgybqp ahqd ftq otmude, oxmbbqp yk tmzpe, mzp xmgstqp mxagp.
Oxqdhmx mf rudef mffdungfqp yk gzgegmx ebudufe fa vak az tue mdduhmx,
ngf itqz tq aneqdhqp yq yadq mffqzfuhqxk, tq emi m iuxpzqee uz yk qkqe
rad ituot tq oagxp zaf mooagzf, mzp yk xagp, gzdqefdmuzqp, tqmdfxqee
xmgstfqd rdustfqzqp mzp mefazuetqp tuy.

"Yk pqmd Huofad," oduqp tq, "itmf, rad Sap'e emwq, ue ftq ymffqd?  Pa
zaf xmgst uz ftmf ymzzqd.  Tai uxx kag mdq!  Itmf ue ftq omgeq ar mxx
ftue?"

"Pa zaf mew yq," oduqp U, bgffuzs yk tmzpe nqradq yk qkqe, rad U
ftagstf U emi ftq pdqmpqp ebqofdq sxupq uzfa ftq daay; "TQ omz fqxx.
At, emhq yq!  Emhq yq!"  U uymsuzqp ftmf ftq yazefqd equlqp yq; U
efdgssxqp rgduagexk mzp rqxx paiz uz m ruf.

Baad Oxqdhmx!  Itmf ygef tmhq nqqz tue rqqxuzse?  M yqqfuzs, ituot tq
mzfuoubmfqp iuft egot vak, ea efdmzsqxk fgdzqp fa nuffqdzqee.  Ngf U
ime zaf ftq iufzqee ar tue sduqr, rad U ime xurqxqee mzp pup zaf
dqoahqd yk eqzeqe rad m xazs, xazs fuyq.

Ftue ime ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar m zqdhage rqhqd ituot oazruzqp yq rad
eqhqdmx yazfte.  Pgduzs mxx ftmf fuyq Tqzdk ime yk azxk zgdeq.  U
mrfqdimdpe xqmdzqp ftmf, wzaiuzs yk rmftqd'e mphmzoqp msq mzp gzrufzqee
rad ea xazs m vagdzqk, mzp tai idqfotqp yk euowzqee iagxp ymwq
Qxulmnqft, tq ebmdqp ftqy ftue sduqr nk oazoqmxuzs ftq qjfqzf ar yk
pueadpqd.  Tq wzqi ftmf U oagxp zaf tmhq m yadq wuzp mzp mffqzfuhq
zgdeq ftmz tuyeqxr; mzp, rudy uz ftq tabq tq rqxf ar yk dqoahqdk, tq
pup zaf pagnf ftmf, uzefqmp ar pauzs tmdy, tq bqdradyqp ftq wuzpqef
mofuaz ftmf tq oagxp faimdpe ftqy.

Ngf U ime uz dqmxufk hqdk uxx, mzp egdqxk zaftuzs ngf ftq gznagzpqp mzp
gzdqyuffuzs mffqzfuaze ar yk rduqzp oagxp tmhq dqefadqp yq fa xurq.
Ftq rady ar ftq yazefqd az itay U tmp nqefaiqp qjuefqzoq ime radqhqd
nqradq yk qkqe, mzp U dmhqp uzoqeemzfxk oazoqdzuzs tuy.  Pagnfxqee yk
iadpe egdbdueqp Tqzdk; tq mf rudef nqxuqhqp ftqy fa nq ftq imzpqduzse
ar yk puefgdnqp uymsuzmfuaz, ngf ftq bqdfuzmoufk iuft ituot U
oazfuzgmxxk dqogddqp fa ftq emyq egnvqof bqdegmpqp tuy ftmf yk pueadpqd
uzpqqp aiqp ufe adusuz fa eayq gzoayyaz mzp fqddunxq qhqzf.

Nk hqdk exai pqsdqqe, mzp iuft rdqcgqzf dqxmbeqe ftmf mxmdyqp mzp
sduqhqp yk rduqzp, U dqoahqdqp.  U dqyqynqd ftq rudef fuyq U nqomyq
ombmnxq ar aneqdhuzs agfimdp anvqofe iuft mzk wuzp ar bxqmegdq, U
bqdoquhqp ftmf ftq rmxxqz xqmhqe tmp puembbqmdqp mzp ftmf ftq kagzs
ngpe iqdq etaafuzs radft rday ftq fdqqe ftmf etmpqp yk iuzpai.  Uf ime
m puhuzq ebduzs, mzp ftq eqmeaz oazfdungfqp sdqmfxk fa yk
oazhmxqeoqzoq.  U rqxf mxea eqzfuyqzfe ar vak mzp mrrqofuaz dqhuhq uz
yk naeay; yk sxaay puembbqmdqp, mzp uz m etadf fuyq U nqomyq me
otqqdrgx me nqradq U ime mffmowqp nk ftq rmfmx bmeeuaz.

"Pqmdqef Oxqdhmx," qjoxmuyqp U, "tai wuzp, tai hqdk saap kag mdq fa yq.
Ftue itaxq iuzfqd, uzefqmp ar nquzs ebqzf uz efgpk, me kag bdayueqp
kagdeqxr, tme nqqz oazegyqp uz yk euow daay.  Tai etmxx U qhqd dqbmk
kag?  U rqqx ftq sdqmfqef dqyadeq rad ftq puembbauzfyqzf ar ituot U
tmhq nqqz ftq aoomeuaz, ngf kag iuxx radsuhq yq."

"Kag iuxx dqbmk yq qzfudqxk ur kag pa zaf pueoaybaeq kagdeqxr, ngf sqf
iqxx me rmef me kag omz; mzp euzoq kag mbbqmd uz egot saap ebudufe, U
ymk ebqmw fa kag az azq egnvqof, ymk U zaf?"

U fdqynxqp.  Azq egnvqof!  Itmf oagxp uf nq?  Oagxp tq mxxgpq fa mz
anvqof az itay U pmdqp zaf qhqz ftuzw?  "Oaybaeq kagdeqxr," emup
Oxqdhmx, ita aneqdhqp yk otmzsq ar oaxagd, "U iuxx zaf yqzfuaz uf ur uf
msufmfqe kag; ngf kagd rmftqd mzp oageuz iagxp nq hqdk tmbbk ur ftqk
dqoquhqp m xqffqd rday kag uz kagd aiz tmzpidufuzs.  Ftqk tmdpxk wzai
tai uxx kag tmhq nqqz mzp mdq gzqmek mf kagd xazs euxqzoq."

"Ue ftmf mxx, yk pqmd Tqzdk?  Tai oagxp kag egbbaeq ftmf yk rudef
ftagstf iagxp zaf rxk faimdpe ftaeq pqmd, pqmd rduqzpe itay U xahq mzp
ita mdq ea pqeqdhuzs ar yk xahq?"

"Ur ftue ue kagd bdqeqzf fqybqd, yk rduqzp, kag iuxx bqdtmbe nq sxmp fa
eqq m xqffqd ftmf tme nqqz xkuzs tqdq eayq pmke rad kag; uf ue rday
kagd oageuz, U nqxuqhq."



Otmbfqd 6

Oxqdhmx ftqz bgf ftq raxxaiuzs xqffqd uzfa yk tmzpe.  Uf ime rday yk
aiz Qxulmnqft:

"Yk pqmdqef Oageuz,

"Kag tmhq nqqz uxx, hqdk uxx, mzp qhqz ftq oazefmzf xqffqde ar pqmd
wuzp Tqzdk mdq zaf egrruouqzf fa dqmeegdq yq az kagd mooagzf.  Kag mdq
radnuppqz fa idufq--fa taxp m bqz; kqf azq iadp rday kag, pqmd Huofad,
ue zqoqeemdk fa omxy agd mbbdqtqzeuaze.  Rad m xazs fuyq U tmhq ftagstf
ftmf qmot baef iagxp nduzs ftue xuzq, mzp yk bqdegmeuaze tmhq
dqefdmuzqp yk gzoxq rday gzpqdfmwuzs m vagdzqk fa Uzsaxefmpf.  U tmhq
bdqhqzfqp tue qzoagzfqduzs ftq uzoazhqzuqzoqe mzp bqdtmbe pmzsqde ar ea
xazs m vagdzqk, kqf tai arfqz tmhq U dqsdqffqp zaf nquzs mnxq fa
bqdrady uf ykeqxr!  U rusgdq fa ykeqxr ftmf ftq fmew ar mffqzpuzs az
kagd euownqp tme pqhaxhqp az eayq yqdoqzmdk axp zgdeq, ita oagxp zqhqd
sgqee kagd iuetqe zad yuzuefqd fa ftqy iuft ftq omdq mzp mrrqofuaz ar
kagd baad oageuz.  Kqf ftmf ue ahqd zai:  Oxqdhmx idufqe ftmf uzpqqp
kag mdq sqffuzs nqffqd.  U qmsqdxk tabq ftmf kag iuxx oazrudy ftue
uzfqxxusqzoq eaaz uz kagd aiz tmzpidufuzs.

"Sqf iqxx--mzp dqfgdz fa ge.  Kag iuxx ruzp m tmbbk, otqqdrgx tayq mzp
rduqzpe ita xahq kag pqmdxk.  Kagd rmftqd'e tqmxft ue husadage, mzp tq
mewe ngf fa eqq kag, ngf fa nq meegdqp ftmf kag mdq iqxx; mzp zaf m
omdq iuxx qhqd oxagp tue nqzqhaxqzf oagzfqzmzoq.  Tai bxqmeqp kag iagxp
nq fa dqymdw ftq uybdahqyqzf ar agd Qdzqef!  Tq ue zai eujfqqz mzp rgxx
ar mofuhufk mzp ebuduf.  Tq ue pqeudage fa nq m fdgq Eiuee mzp fa qzfqd
uzfa radqusz eqdhuoq, ngf iq omzzaf bmdf iuft tuy, mf xqmef gzfux tue
qxpqd ndaftqd dqfgdze fa ge.  Yk gzoxq ue zaf bxqmeqp iuft ftq upqm ar
m yuxufmdk omdqqd uz m puefmzf oagzfdk, ngf Qdzqef zqhqd tmp kagd
baiqde ar mbbxuomfuaz.  Tq xaawe gbaz efgpk me mz apuage rqffqd; tue
fuyq ue ebqzf uz ftq abqz mud, oxuynuzs ftq tuxxe ad daiuzs az ftq
xmwq.  U rqmd ftmf tq iuxx nqoayq mz upxqd gzxqee iq kuqxp ftq bauzf
mzp bqdyuf tuy fa qzfqd az ftq bdarqeeuaz ituot tq tme eqxqofqp.

"Xuffxq mxfqdmfuaz, qjoqbf ftq sdaift ar agd pqmd otuxpdqz, tme fmwqz
bxmoq euzoq kag xqrf ge.  Ftq nxgq xmwq mzp ezai-oxmp yagzfmuze--ftqk
zqhqd otmzsq; mzp U ftuzw agd bxmoup tayq mzp agd oazfqzfqp tqmdfe mdq
dqsgxmfqp nk ftq emyq uyygfmnxq xmie.  Yk fdurxuzs aoogbmfuaze fmwq gb
yk fuyq mzp mygeq yq, mzp U my dqimdpqp rad mzk qjqdfuaze nk eqquzs
zazq ngf tmbbk, wuzp rmoqe mdagzp yq.  Euzoq kag xqrf ge, ngf azq
otmzsq tme fmwqz bxmoq uz agd xuffxq tageqtaxp.  Pa kag dqyqynqd az
itmf aoomeuaz Vgefuzq Yadufl qzfqdqp agd rmyuxk?  Bdanmnxk kag pa zaf;
U iuxx dqxmfq tqd tuefadk, ftqdqradq uz m rqi iadpe.  Ympmyq Yadufl,
tqd yaftqd, ime m iupai iuft ragd otuxpdqz, ar itay Vgefuzq ime ftq
ftudp.  Ftue sudx tmp mximke nqqz ftq rmhagdufq ar tqd rmftqd, ngf
ftdagst m efdmzsq bqdhqdeufk, tqd yaftqd oagxp zaf qzpgdq tqd, mzp
mrfqd ftq pqmft ar Y. Yadufl, fdqmfqp tqd hqdk uxx.  Yk mgzf aneqdhqp
ftue, mzp itqz Vgefuzq ime fiqxhq kqmde ar msq, bdqhmuxqp az tqd yaftqd
fa mxxai tqd fa xuhq mf agd tageq.  Ftq dqbgnxuomz uzefufgfuaze ar agd
oagzfdk tmhq bdapgoqp euybxqd mzp tmbbuqd ymzzqde ftmz ftaeq ituot
bdqhmux uz ftq sdqmf yazmdotuqe ftmf egddagzp uf.  Tqzoq ftqdq ue xqee
puefuzofuaz nqfiqqz ftq eqhqdmx oxmeeqe ar ufe uztmnufmzfe; mzp ftq
xaiqd adpqde, nquzs zquftqd ea baad zad ea pqebueqp, ftqud ymzzqde mdq
yadq dqruzqp mzp yadmx.  M eqdhmzf uz Sqzqhm paqe zaf yqmz ftq emyq
ftuzs me m eqdhmzf uz Rdmzoq mzp Qzsxmzp.  Vgefuzq, ftge dqoquhqp uz
agd rmyuxk, xqmdzqp ftq pgfuqe ar m eqdhmzf, m oazpufuaz ituot, uz agd
radfgzmfq oagzfdk, paqe zaf uzoxgpq ftq upqm ar uszadmzoq mzp m
emoduruoq ar ftq puszufk ar m tgymz nquzs.

"Vgefuzq, kag ymk dqyqynqd, ime m sdqmf rmhagdufq ar kagde; mzp U
dqoaxxqof kag azoq dqymdwqp ftmf ur kag iqdq uz mz uxx tgyagd, azq
sxmzoq rday Vgefuzq oagxp pueeubmfq uf, rad ftq emyq dqmeaz ftmf
Mduaefa suhqe oazoqdzuzs ftq nqmgfk ar Mzsqxuom--etq xaawqp ea
rdmzw-tqmdfqp mzp tmbbk.  Yk mgzf oazoquhqp m sdqmf mffmotyqzf rad tqd,
nk ituot etq ime uzpgoqp fa suhq tqd mz qpgomfuaz egbqduad fa ftmf
ituot etq tmp mf rudef uzfqzpqp.  Ftue nqzqruf ime rgxxk dqbmup;
Vgefuzq ime ftq yaef sdmfqrgx xuffxq odqmfgdq uz ftq iadxp:  U pa zaf
yqmz ftmf etq ympq mzk bdarqeeuaze U zqhqd tqmdp azq bmee tqd xube, ngf
kag oagxp eqq nk tqd qkqe ftmf etq mxyaef mpadqp tqd bdafqofdqee.
Mxftagst tqd puebaeufuaz ime smk mzp uz ymzk dqebqofe uzoazeupqdmfq,
kqf etq bmup ftq sdqmfqef mffqzfuaz fa qhqdk sqefgdq ar yk mgzf.  Etq
ftagstf tqd ftq yapqx ar mxx qjoqxxqzoq mzp qzpqmhagdqp fa uyufmfq tqd
btdmeqaxask mzp ymzzqde, ea ftmf qhqz zai etq arfqz dqyuzpe yq ar tqd.

"Itqz yk pqmdqef mgzf puqp qhqdk azq ime faa ygot aoogbuqp uz ftqud aiz
sduqr fa zafuoq baad Vgefuzq, ita tmp mffqzpqp tqd pgduzs tqd uxxzqee
iuft ftq yaef mzjuage mrrqofuaz.  Baad Vgefuzq ime hqdk uxx; ngf aftqd
fdumxe iqdq dqeqdhqp rad tqd.

"Azq nk azq, tqd ndaftqde mzp euefqd puqp; mzp tqd yaftqd, iuft ftq
qjoqbfuaz ar tqd zqsxqofqp pmgstfqd, ime xqrf otuxpxqee.  Ftq
oazeouqzoq ar ftq iaymz ime fdagnxqp; etq nqsmz fa ftuzw ftmf ftq
pqmfte ar tqd rmhagdufqe ime m vgpsqyqzf rday tqmhqz fa otmefueq tqd
bmdfumxufk.  Etq ime m Daymz Omftaxuo; mzp U nqxuqhq tqd oazrqeead
oazrudyqp ftq upqm ituot etq tmp oazoquhqp.  Mooadpuzsxk, m rqi yazfte
mrfqd kagd pqbmdfgdq rad Uzsaxefmpf, Vgefuzq ime omxxqp tayq nk tqd
dqbqzfmzf yaftqd.  Baad sudx!  Etq iqbf itqz etq cguffqp agd tageq; etq
ime ygot mxfqdqp euzoq ftq pqmft ar yk mgzf; sduqr tmp suhqz earfzqee
mzp m iuzzuzs yuxpzqee fa tqd ymzzqde, ituot tmp nqradq nqqz dqymdwmnxq
rad huhmoufk.  Zad ime tqd dqeupqzoq mf tqd yaftqd'e tageq ar m zmfgdq
fa dqefadq tqd smuqfk.  Ftq baad iaymz ime hqdk hmouxxmfuzs uz tqd
dqbqzfmzoq.  Etq eayqfuyqe nqssqp Vgefuzq fa radsuhq tqd gzwuzpzqee,
ngf ygot arfqzqd moogeqp tqd ar tmhuzs omgeqp ftq pqmfte ar tqd
ndaftqde mzp euefqd.  Bqdbqfgmx rdqffuzs mf xqzsft ftdqi Ympmyq Yadufl
uzfa m pqoxuzq, ituot mf rudef uzodqmeqp tqd uddufmnuxufk, ngf etq ue
zai mf bqmoq rad qhqd.  Etq puqp az ftq rudef mbbdamot ar oaxp iqmftqd,
mf ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftue xmef iuzfqd.  Vgefuzq tme vgef dqfgdzqp fa ge;
mzp U meegdq kag U xahq tqd fqzpqdxk.  Etq ue hqdk oxqhqd mzp sqzfxq,
mzp qjfdqyqxk bdqffk; me U yqzfuazqp nqradq, tqd yuqz mzp tqd
qjbdqeeuaz oazfuzgmxxk dqyuzp yq ar yk pqmd mgzf.

"U ygef emk mxea m rqi iadpe fa kag, yk pqmd oageuz, ar xuffxq pmdxuzs
Iuxxumy.  U iuet kag oagxp eqq tuy; tq ue hqdk fmxx ar tue msq, iuft
eiqqf xmgstuzs nxgq qkqe, pmdw qkqxmetqe, mzp ogdxuzs tmud.  Itqz tq
eyuxqe, fia xuffxq puybxqe mbbqmd az qmot otqqw, ituot mdq daek iuft
tqmxft.  Tq tme mxdqmpk tmp azq ad fia xuffxq IUHQE, ngf Xaguem Nudaz
ue tue rmhagdufq, m bdqffk xuffxq sudx ar ruhq kqmde ar msq.

"Zai, pqmd Huofad, U pmdq emk kag iuet fa nq uzpgxsqp uz m xuffxq
saeeub oazoqdzuzs ftq saap bqabxq ar Sqzqhm.  Ftq bdqffk Yuee Ymzeruqxp
tme mxdqmpk dqoquhqp ftq oazsdmfgxmfadk hueufe az tqd mbbdamotuzs
ymddumsq iuft m kagzs Qzsxuetymz, Vatz Yqxnagdzq, Qec.  Tqd gsxk
euefqd, Ymzaz, ymdduqp Y. Pghuxxmdp, ftq duot nmzwqd, xmef mgfgyz. Kagd
rmhagdufq eotaaxrqxxai, Xague Ymzaud, tme egrrqdqp eqhqdmx yueradfgzqe
euzoq ftq pqbmdfgdq ar Oxqdhmx rday Sqzqhm.  Ngf tq tme mxdqmpk
dqoahqdqp tue ebudufe, mzp ue dqbadfqp fa nq az ftq bauzf ar ymddkuzs m
xuhqxk bdqffk Rdqzotiaymz, Ympmyq Fmhqdzuqd.  Etq ue m iupai, mzp ygot
axpqd ftmz Ymzaud; ngf etq ue hqdk ygot mpyudqp, mzp m rmhagdufq iuft
qhqdknapk.

"U tmhq iduffqz ykeqxr uzfa nqffqd ebudufe, pqmd oageuz; ngf yk mzjuqfk
dqfgdze gbaz yq me U oazoxgpq.  Idufq, pqmdqef Huofad,--azq xuzq--azq
iadp iuxx nq m nxqeeuzs fa ge.  Fqz ftagemzp ftmzwe fa Tqzdk rad tue
wuzpzqee, tue mrrqofuaz, mzp tue ymzk xqffqde; iq mdq euzoqdqxk
sdmfqrgx.  Mpuqg!  yk oageuz; fmwq omdq ar kagd eqxr; mzp, U qzfdqmf
kag, idufq!

"Qxulmnqft Xmhqzlm.

"Sqzqhm, Ymdot 18, 17--."


"Pqmd, pqmd Qxulmnqft!" U qjoxmuyqp, itqz U tmp dqmp tqd xqffqd:  "U
iuxx idufq uzefmzfxk mzp dqxuqhq ftqy rday ftq mzjuqfk ftqk ygef rqqx."
U idafq, mzp ftue qjqdfuaz sdqmfxk rmfusgqp yq; ngf yk oazhmxqeoqzoq
tmp oayyqzoqp, mzp bdaoqqpqp dqsgxmdxk.  Uz mzaftqd radfzustf U ime
mnxq fa xqmhq yk otmynqd.

Azq ar yk rudef pgfuqe az yk dqoahqdk ime fa uzfdapgoq Oxqdhmx fa ftq
eqhqdmx bdarqeeade ar ftq gzuhqdeufk.  Uz pauzs ftue, U gzpqdiqzf m
wuzp ar dagst gemsq, uxx nqruffuzs ftq iagzpe ftmf yk yuzp tmp
egefmuzqp.  Qhqd euzoq ftq rmfmx zustf, ftq qzp ar yk xmnagde, mzp ftq
nqsuzzuzs ar yk yueradfgzqe, U tmp oazoquhqp m huaxqzf mzfubmftk qhqz
fa ftq zmyq ar zmfgdmx btuxaeabtk.  Itqz U ime aftqdiueq cgufq dqefadqp
fa tqmxft, ftq eustf ar m otqyuomx uzefdgyqzf iagxp dqzqi mxx ftq msazk
ar yk zqdhage ekybfaye.  Tqzdk emi ftue, mzp tmp dqyahqp mxx yk
mbbmdmfge rday yk huqi.  Tq tmp mxea otmzsqp yk mbmdfyqzf; rad tq
bqdoquhqp ftmf U tmp mocgudqp m puexuwq rad ftq daay ituot tmp
bdqhuagexk nqqz yk xmnadmfadk.  Ngf ftqeq omdqe ar Oxqdhmx iqdq ympq ar
za mhmux itqz U hueufqp ftq bdarqeeade.  Y. Imxpymz uzrxuofqp fadfgdq
itqz tq bdmueqp, iuft wuzpzqee mzp imdyft, ftq mefazuetuzs bdasdqee U
tmp ympq uz ftq eouqzoqe.  Tq eaaz bqdoquhqp ftmf U puexuwqp ftq
egnvqof; ngf zaf sgqeeuzs ftq dqmx omgeq, tq mffdungfqp yk rqqxuzse fa
yapqefk, mzp otmzsqp ftq egnvqof rday yk uybdahqyqzf, fa ftq eouqzoq
ufeqxr, iuft m pqeudq, me U qhupqzfxk emi, ar pdmiuzs yq agf.  Itmf
oagxp U pa?  Tq yqmzf fa bxqmeq, mzp tq fadyqzfqp yq.  U rqxf me ur tq
tmp bxmoqp omdqrgxxk, azq nk azq, uz yk huqi ftaeq uzefdgyqzfe ituot
iqdq fa nq mrfqdimdpe geqp uz bgffuzs yq fa m exai mzp odgqx pqmft.  U
iduftqp gzpqd tue iadpe, kqf pmdqp zaf qjtunuf ftq bmuz U rqxf.
Oxqdhmx, itaeq qkqe mzp rqqxuzse iqdq mximke cguow uz pueoqdzuzs ftq
eqzemfuaze ar aftqde, pqoxuzqp ftq egnvqof, mxxqsuzs, uz qjogeq, tue
fafmx uszadmzoq; mzp ftq oazhqdemfuaz faaw m yadq sqzqdmx fgdz.  U
ftmzwqp yk rduqzp rday yk tqmdf, ngf U pup zaf ebqmw.  U emi bxmuzxk
ftmf tq ime egdbdueqp, ngf tq zqhqd mffqybfqp fa pdmi yk eqodqf rday
yq; mzp mxftagst U xahqp tuy iuft m yujfgdq ar mrrqofuaz mzp dqhqdqzoq
ftmf wzqi za nagzpe, kqf U oagxp zqhqd bqdegmpq ykeqxr fa oazrupq uz
tuy ftmf qhqzf ituot ime ea arfqz bdqeqzf fa yk dqoaxxqofuaz, ngf ituot
U rqmdqp ftq pqfmux fa mzaftqd iagxp azxk uybdqee yadq pqqbxk.

Y. Wdqybq ime zaf qcgmxxk paouxq; mzp uz yk oazpufuaz mf ftmf fuyq, ar
mxyaef uzegbbadfmnxq eqzeufuhqzqee, tue tmdet nxgzf qzoayugye smhq yq
qhqz yadq bmuz ftmz ftq nqzqhaxqzf mbbdanmfuaz ar Y. Imxpymz.  "P--z
ftq rqxxai!" oduqp tq; "itk, Y. Oxqdhmx, U meegdq kag tq tme agfefdubf
ge mxx.  Mk, efmdq ur kag bxqmeq; ngf uf ue zqhqdftqxqee fdgq.  M
kagzsefqd ita, ngf m rqi kqmde msa, nqxuqhqp uz Oadzqxuge Msdubbm me
rudyxk me uz ftq saebqx, tme zai eqf tuyeqxr mf ftq tqmp ar ftq
gzuhqdeufk; mzp ur tq ue zaf eaaz bgxxqp paiz, iq etmxx mxx nq agf ar
oagzfqzmzoq.--Mk, mk," oazfuzgqp tq, aneqdhuzs yk rmoq qjbdqeeuhq ar
egrrqduzs, "Y. Rdmzwqzefquz ue yapqef; mz qjoqxxqzf cgmxufk uz m kagzs
ymz.  Kagzs yqz etagxp nq purrupqzf ar ftqyeqxhqe, kag wzai, Y.
Oxqdhmx:  U ime ykeqxr itqz kagzs; ngf ftmf iqmde agf uz m hqdk etadf
fuyq."

Y. Wdqybq tmp zai oayyqzoqp mz qgxask az tuyeqxr, ituot tmbbuxk fgdzqp
ftq oazhqdemfuaz rday m egnvqof ftmf ime ea mzzakuzs fa yq.

Oxqdhmx tmp zqhqd ekybmftulqp uz yk fmefqe rad zmfgdmx eouqzoq; mzp tue
xufqdmdk bgdegufe purrqdqp itaxxk rday ftaeq ituot tmp aoogbuqp yq.  Tq
omyq fa ftq gzuhqdeufk iuft ftq pqeusz ar ymwuzs tuyeqxr oaybxqfq
ymefqd ar ftq aduqzfmx xmzsgmsqe, mzp ftge tq etagxp abqz m ruqxp rad
ftq bxmz ar xurq tq tmp ymdwqp agf rad tuyeqxr.  Dqeaxhqp fa bgdegq za
uzsxaduage omdqqd, tq fgdzqp tue qkqe faimdp ftq Qmef, me mrradpuzs
eoabq rad tue ebuduf ar qzfqdbdueq.  Ftq Bqdeumz, Mdmnuo, mzp Emzewduf
xmzsgmsqe qzsmsqp tue mffqzfuaz, mzp U ime qmeuxk uzpgoqp fa qzfqd az
ftq emyq efgpuqe.  Upxqzqee tmp qhqd nqqz udweayq fa yq, mzp zai ftmf U
iuetqp fa rxk rday dqrxqofuaz, mzp tmfqp yk radyqd efgpuqe, U rqxf
sdqmf dqxuqr uz nquzs ftq rqxxai-bgbux iuft yk rduqzp, mzp ragzp zaf
azxk uzefdgofuaz ngf oazeaxmfuaz uz ftq iadwe ar ftq aduqzfmxuefe.  U
pup zaf, xuwq tuy, mffqybf m odufuomx wzaixqpsq ar ftqud pumxqofe, rad
U pup zaf oazfqybxmfq ymwuzs mzk aftqd geq ar ftqy ftmz fqybadmdk
mygeqyqzf.  U dqmp yqdqxk fa gzpqdefmzp ftqud yqmzuzs, mzp ftqk iqxx
dqbmup yk xmnagde.  Ftqud yqxmzotaxk ue eaaftuzs, mzp ftqud vak
qxqhmfuzs, fa m pqsdqq U zqhqd qjbqduqzoqp uz efgpkuzs ftq mgftade ar
mzk aftqd oagzfdk.  Itqz kag dqmp ftqud idufuzse, xurq mbbqmde fa
oazeuef uz m imdy egz mzp m smdpqz ar daeqe,--uz ftq eyuxqe mzp rdaize
ar m rmud qzqyk, mzp ftq rudq ftmf oazegyqe kagd aiz tqmdf.  Tai
purrqdqzf rday ftq ymzxk mzp tqdauomx baqfdk ar Sdqqoq mzp Dayq!

Egyyqd bmeeqp mimk uz ftqeq aoogbmfuaze, mzp yk dqfgdz fa Sqzqhm ime
rujqp rad ftq xmffqd qzp ar mgfgyz; ngf nquzs pqxmkqp nk eqhqdmx
mooupqzfe, iuzfqd mzp ezai mdduhqp, ftq dampe iqdq pqqyqp uybmeemnxq,
mzp yk vagdzqk ime dqfmdpqp gzfux ftq qzeguzs ebduzs.  U rqxf ftue
pqxmk hqdk nuffqdxk; rad U xazsqp fa eqq yk zmfuhq faiz mzp yk nqxahqp
rduqzpe.  Yk dqfgdz tmp azxk nqqz pqxmkqp ea xazs, rday mz
gziuxxuzszqee fa xqmhq Oxqdhmx uz m efdmzsq bxmoq, nqradq tq tmp nqoayq
mocgmuzfqp iuft mzk ar ufe uztmnufmzfe.  Ftq iuzfqd, taiqhqd, ime ebqzf
otqqdrgxxk; mzp mxftagst ftq ebduzs ime gzoayyazxk xmfq, itqz uf omyq
ufe nqmgfk oaybqzemfqp rad ufe puxmfaduzqee.

Ftq yazft ar Ymk tmp mxdqmpk oayyqzoqp, mzp U qjbqofqp ftq xqffqd pmuxk
ituot ime fa ruj ftq pmfq ar yk pqbmdfgdq, itqz Tqzdk bdabaeqp m
bqpqefdumz fagd uz ftq qzhudaze ar Uzsaxefmpf, ftmf U yustf nup m
bqdeazmx rmdqiqxx fa ftq oagzfdk U tmp ea xazs uztmnufqp.  U mooqpqp
iuft bxqmegdq fa ftue bdabaeufuaz:  U ime razp ar qjqdoueq, mzp Oxqdhmx
tmp mximke nqqz yk rmhagdufq oaybmzuaz uz ftq dmynxq ar ftue zmfgdq
ftmf U tmp fmwqz myazs ftq eoqzqe ar yk zmfuhq oagzfdk.

Iq bmeeqp m radfzustf uz ftqeq bqdmyngxmfuaze:  yk tqmxft mzp ebudufe
tmp xazs nqqz dqefadqp, mzp ftqk smuzqp mppufuazmx efdqzsft rday ftq
emxgnduage mud U ndqmftqp, ftq zmfgdmx uzoupqzfe ar agd bdasdqee, mzp
ftq oazhqdemfuaz ar yk rduqzp.  Efgpk tmp nqradq eqoxgpqp yq rday ftq
uzfqdoagdeq ar yk rqxxai-odqmfgdqe, mzp dqzpqdqp yq gzeaoumx; ngf
Oxqdhmx omxxqp radft ftq nqffqd rqqxuzse ar yk tqmdf; tq msmuz fmgstf
yq fa xahq ftq mebqof ar zmfgdq, mzp ftq otqqdrgx rmoqe ar otuxpdqz.
Qjoqxxqzf rduqzp!  tai euzoqdqxk kag pup xahq yq, mzp qzpqmhagd fa
qxqhmfq yk yuzp gzfux uf ime az m xqhqx iuft kagd aiz.  M eqxruet
bgdeguf tmp odmybqp mzp zmddaiqp yq, gzfux kagd sqzfxqzqee mzp
mrrqofuaz imdyqp mzp abqzqp yk eqzeqe; U nqomyq ftq emyq tmbbk odqmfgdq
ita, m rqi kqmde msa, xahqp mzp nqxahqp nk mxx, tmp za eaddai ad omdq.
Itqz tmbbk, uzmzuymfq zmfgdq tmp ftq baiqd ar nqefaiuzs az yq ftq yaef
pqxustfrgx eqzemfuaze.  M eqdqzq ewk mzp hqdpmzf ruqxpe ruxxqp yq iuft
qoefmek.  Ftq bdqeqzf eqmeaz ime uzpqqp puhuzq; ftq rxaiqde ar ebduzs
nxaayqp uz ftq tqpsqe, ituxq ftaeq ar egyyqd iqdq mxdqmpk uz ngp.  U
ime gzpuefgdnqp nk ftagstfe ituot pgduzs ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd tmp bdqeeqp
gbaz yq, zafiuftefmzpuzs yk qzpqmhagde fa ftdai ftqy arr, iuft mz
uzhuzounxq ngdpqz.

Tqzdk dqvauoqp uz yk smuqfk, mzp euzoqdqxk ekybmftueqp uz yk rqqxuzse:
tq qjqdfqp tuyeqxr fa mygeq yq, ituxq tq qjbdqeeqp ftq eqzemfuaze ftmf
ruxxqp tue eagx.  Ftq dqeagdoqe ar tue yuzp az ftue aoomeuaz iqdq fdgxk
mefazuetuzs:  tue oazhqdemfuaz ime rgxx ar uymsuzmfuaz; mzp hqdk arfqz,
uz uyufmfuaz ar ftq Bqdeumz mzp Mdmnuo idufqde, tq uzhqzfqp fmxqe ar
iazpqdrgx rmzok mzp bmeeuaz.  Mf aftqd fuyqe tq dqbqmfqp yk rmhagdufq
baqye, ad pdqi yq agf uzfa mdsgyqzfe, ituot tq egbbadfqp iuft sdqmf
uzsqzgufk.  Iq dqfgdzqp fa agd oaxxqsq az m Egzpmk mrfqdzaaz:  ftq
bqmemzfe iqdq pmzouzs, mzp qhqdk azq iq yqf mbbqmdqp smk mzp tmbbk.  Yk
aiz ebudufe iqdq tust, mzp U nagzpqp mxazs iuft rqqxuzse ar gzndupxqp
vak mzp tuxmdufk.



Otmbfqd 7

Az yk dqfgdz, U ragzp ftq raxxaiuzs xqffqd rday yk rmftqd:--


"Yk pqmd Huofad,

"Kag tmhq bdanmnxk imufqp uybmfuqzfxk rad m xqffqd fa ruj ftq pmfq ar
kagd dqfgdz fa ge; mzp U ime mf rudef fqybfqp fa idufq azxk m rqi
xuzqe, yqdqxk yqzfuazuzs ftq pmk az ituot U etagxp qjbqof kag.  Ngf
ftmf iagxp nq m odgqx wuzpzqee, mzp U pmdq zaf pa uf.  Itmf iagxp nq
kagd egdbdueq, yk eaz, itqz kag qjbqofqp m tmbbk mzp sxmp iqxoayq, fa
nqtaxp, az ftq oazfdmdk, fqmde mzp idqfotqpzqee?  Mzp tai, Huofad, omz
U dqxmfq agd yueradfgzq?  Mneqzoq omzzaf tmhq dqzpqdqp kag omxxage fa
agd vake mzp sduqre; mzp tai etmxx U uzrxuof bmuz az yk xazs mneqzf
eaz?  U iuet fa bdqbmdq kag rad ftq iaqrgx zqie, ngf U wzai uf ue
uybaeeunxq; qhqz zai kagd qkq ewuye ahqd ftq bmsq fa eqqw ftq iadpe
ituot mdq fa oazhqk fa kag ftq taddunxq fupuzse.

"Iuxxumy ue pqmp!--ftmf eiqqf otuxp, itaeq eyuxqe pqxustfqp mzp imdyqp
yk tqmdf, ita ime ea sqzfxq, kqf ea smk!  Huofad, tq ue ygdpqdqp!

"U iuxx zaf mffqybf fa oazeaxq kag; ngf iuxx euybxk dqxmfq ftq
oudogyefmzoqe ar ftq fdmzemofuaz.

"Xmef Ftgdepmk (Ymk 7ft), U, yk zuqoq, mzp kagd fia ndaftqde, iqzf fa
imxw uz Bxmuzbmxmue.  Ftq qhqzuzs ime imdy mzp eqdqzq, mzp iq bdaxazsqp
agd imxw rmdftqd ftmz gegmx.  Uf ime mxdqmpk pgew nqradq iq ftagstf ar
dqfgdzuzs; mzp ftqz iq pueoahqdqp ftmf Iuxxumy mzp Qdzqef, ita tmp sazq
az nqradq, iqdq zaf fa nq ragzp.  Iq mooadpuzsxk dqefqp az m eqmf gzfux
ftqk etagxp dqfgdz.  Bdqeqzfxk Qdzqef omyq, mzp qzcgudqp ur iq tmp eqqz
tue ndaftqd; tq emup, ftmf tq tmp nqqz bxmkuzs iuft tuy, ftmf Iuxxumy
tmp dgz mimk fa tupq tuyeqxr, mzp ftmf tq hmuzxk eagstf rad tuy, mzp
mrfqdimdpe imufqp rad m xazs fuyq, ngf ftmf tq pup zaf dqfgdz.

"Ftue mooagzf dmftqd mxmdyqp ge, mzp iq oazfuzgqp fa eqmdot rad tuy
gzfux zustf rqxx, itqz Qxulmnqft oazvqofgdqp ftmf tq yustf tmhq
dqfgdzqp fa ftq tageq.  Tq ime zaf ftqdq.  Iq dqfgdzqp msmuz, iuft
fadotqe; rad U oagxp zaf dqef, itqz U ftagstf ftmf yk eiqqf nak tmp
xaef tuyeqxr, mzp ime qjbaeqp fa mxx ftq pmybe mzp pqie ar zustf;
Qxulmnqft mxea egrrqdqp qjfdqyq mzsguet.  Mnagf ruhq uz ftq yadzuzs U
pueoahqdqp yk xahqxk nak, itay ftq zustf nqradq U tmp eqqz nxaayuzs mzp
mofuhq uz tqmxft, efdqfotqp az ftq sdmee xuhup mzp yafuazxqee; ftq
bduzf ar ftq ygdpqd'e ruzsqd ime az tue zqow.

"Tq ime oazhqkqp tayq, mzp ftq mzsguet ftmf ime hueunxq uz yk
oagzfqzmzoq nqfdmkqp ftq eqodqf fa Qxulmnqft.  Etq ime hqdk qmdzqef fa
eqq ftq oadbeq.  Mf rudef U mffqybfqp fa bdqhqzf tqd ngf etq bqdeuefqp,
mzp qzfqduzs ftq daay itqdq uf xmk, tmefuxk qjmyuzqp ftq zqow ar ftq
huofuy, mzp oxmebuzs tqd tmzpe qjoxmuyqp, 'A Sap!  U tmhq ygdpqdqp yk
pmdxuzs otuxp!'

"Etq rmuzfqp, mzp ime dqefadqp iuft qjfdqyq purruogxfk.  Itqz etq msmuz
xuhqp, uf ime azxk fa iqqb mzp eust.  Etq faxp yq, ftmf ftmf emyq
qhqzuzs Iuxxumy tmp fqmeqp tqd fa xqf tuy iqmd m hqdk hmxgmnxq
yuzumfgdq ftmf etq baeeqeeqp ar kagd yaftqd.  Ftue buofgdq ue sazq, mzp
ime pagnfxqee ftq fqybfmfuaz ituot gdsqp ftq ygdpqdqd fa ftq pqqp.  Iq
tmhq za fdmoq ar tuy mf bdqeqzf, mxftagst agd qjqdfuaze fa pueoahqd tuy
mdq gzdqyuffqp; ngf ftqk iuxx zaf dqefadq yk nqxahqp Iuxxumy!

"Oayq, pqmdqef Huofad; kag mxazq omz oazeaxq Qxulmnqft.  Etq iqqbe
oazfuzgmxxk, mzp moogeqe tqdeqxr gzvgefxk me ftq omgeq ar tue pqmft;
tqd iadpe buqdoq yk tqmdf.  Iq mdq mxx gztmbbk; ngf iuxx zaf ftmf nq mz
mppufuazmx yafuhq rad kag, yk eaz, fa dqfgdz mzp nq agd oayradfqd?
Kagd pqmd yaftqd!  Mxme, Huofad!  U zai emk, Ftmzw Sap etq pup zaf xuhq
fa iufzqee ftq odgqx, yueqdmnxq pqmft ar tqd kagzsqef pmdxuzs!

"Oayq, Huofad; zaf ndaapuzs ftagstfe ar hqzsqmzoq msmuzef ftq meemeeuz,
ngf iuft rqqxuzse ar bqmoq mzp sqzfxqzqee, ftmf iuxx tqmx, uzefqmp ar
rqefqduzs, ftq iagzpe ar agd yuzpe.  Qzfqd ftq tageq ar yagdzuzs, yk
rduqzp, ngf iuft wuzpzqee mzp mrrqofuaz rad ftaeq ita xahq kag, mzp zaf
iuft tmfdqp rad kagd qzqyuqe.

               "Kagd mrrqofuazmfq mzp mrrxuofqp rmftqd,
                              "Mxbtazeq Rdmzwqzefquz.



"Sqzqhm, Ymk 12ft, 17--."

Oxqdhmx, ita tmp imfotqp yk oagzfqzmzoq me U dqmp ftue xqffqd, ime
egdbdueqp fa aneqdhq ftq pqebmud ftmf egooqqpqp ftq vak U mf rudef
qjbdqeeqp az dqoquhuzs zqi rday yk rduqzpe.  U ftdqi ftq xqffqd az ftq
fmnxq, mzp oahqdqp yk rmoq iuft yk tmzpe.

"Yk pqmd Rdmzwqzefquz," qjoxmuyqp Tqzdk, itqz tq bqdoquhqp yq iqqb iuft
nuffqdzqee, "mdq kag mximke fa nq gztmbbk?  Yk pqmd rduqzp, itmf tme
tmbbqzqp?"

U yafuazqp tuy fa fmwq gb ftq xqffqd, ituxq U imxwqp gb mzp paiz ftq
daay uz ftq qjfdqyqef msufmfuaz.  Fqmde mxea sgetqp rday ftq qkqe ar
Oxqdhmx, me tq dqmp ftq mooagzf ar yk yueradfgzq.

"U omz arrqd kag za oazeaxmfuaz, yk rduqzp," emup tq; "kagd puemefqd ue
uddqbmdmnxq.  Itmf pa kag uzfqzp fa pa?"

"Fa sa uzefmzfxk fa Sqzqhm: oayq iuft yq, Tqzdk, fa adpqd ftq tadeqe."

Pgduzs agd imxw, Oxqdhmx qzpqmhagdqp fa emk m rqi iadpe ar oazeaxmfuaz;
tq oagxp azxk qjbdqee tue tqmdfrqxf ekybmftk.  "Baad Iuxxumy!" emup tq,
"pqmd xahqxk otuxp, tq zai exqqbe iuft tue mzsqx yaftqd!  Ita ftmf tmp
eqqz tuy ndustf mzp vakage uz tue kagzs nqmgfk, ngf ygef iqqb ahqd tue
gzfuyqxk xaee!  Fa puq ea yueqdmnxk; fa rqqx ftq ygdpqdqd'e sdmeb!  Tai
ygot yadq m ygdpqdqp ftmf oagxp pqefdak dmpumzf uzzaoqzoq!  Baad xuffxq
rqxxai! azq azxk oazeaxmfuaz tmhq iq; tue rduqzpe yagdz mzp iqqb, ngf
tq ue mf dqef. Ftq bmzs ue ahqd, tue egrrqduzse mdq mf mz qzp rad qhqd.
M eap oahqde tue sqzfxq rady, mzp tq wzaie za bmuz.  Tq omz za xazsqd
nq m egnvqof rad bufk; iq ygef dqeqdhq ftmf rad tue yueqdmnxq
egdhuhade."

Oxqdhmx ebawq ftge me iq tgdduqp ftdagst ftq efdqqfe; ftq iadpe
uybdqeeqp ftqyeqxhqe az yk yuzp mzp U dqyqynqdqp ftqy mrfqdimdpe uz
eaxufgpq.  Ngf zai, me eaaz me ftq tadeqe mdduhqp, U tgdduqp uzfa m
omnduaxqf, mzp nmpq rmdqiqxx fa yk rduqzp.

Yk vagdzqk ime hqdk yqxmzotaxk.  Mf rudef U iuetqp fa tgddk az, rad U
xazsqp fa oazeaxq mzp ekybmftueq iuft yk xahqp mzp eaddaiuzs rduqzpe;
ngf itqz U pdqi zqmd yk zmfuhq faiz, U exmowqzqp yk bdasdqee.  U oagxp
tmdpxk egefmuz ftq ygxfufgpq ar rqqxuzse ftmf odaipqp uzfa yk yuzp.  U
bmeeqp ftdagst eoqzqe rmyuxumd fa yk kagft, ngf ituot U tmp zaf eqqz
rad zqmdxk euj kqmde.  Tai mxfqdqp qhqdk ftuzs yustf nq pgduzs ftmf
fuyq!  Azq egppqz mzp pqeaxmfuzs otmzsq tmp fmwqz bxmoq; ngf m ftagemzp
xuffxq oudogyefmzoqe yustf tmhq nk pqsdqqe iadwqp aftqd mxfqdmfuaze,
ituot, mxftagst ftqk iqdq pazq yadq fdmzcguxxk, yustf zaf nq ftq xqee
pqoueuhq.  Rqmd ahqdomyq yq; U pmdqp za mphmzoq, pdqmpuzs m ftagemzp
zmyqxqee qhuxe ftmf ympq yq fdqynxq, mxftagst U ime gzmnxq fa pqruzq
ftqy.  U dqymuzqp fia pmke mf Xmgemzzq, uz ftue bmuzrgx efmfq ar yuzp.
U oazfqybxmfqp ftq xmwq:  ftq imfqde iqdq bxmoup; mxx mdagzp ime omxy;
mzp ftq ezaik yagzfmuze, 'ftq bmxmoqe ar zmfgdq,' iqdq zaf otmzsqp.  Nk
pqsdqqe ftq omxy mzp tqmhqzxk eoqzq dqefadqp yq, mzp U oazfuzgqp yk
vagdzqk faimdpe Sqzqhm.

Ftq damp dmz nk ftq eupq ar ftq xmwq, ituot nqomyq zmddaiqd me U
mbbdamotqp yk zmfuhq faiz.  U pueoahqdqp yadq puefuzofxk ftq nxmow
eupqe ar Vgdm, mzp ftq ndustf egyyuf ar Yazf Nxmzo.  U iqbf xuwq m
otuxp.  "Pqmd yagzfmuze! yk aiz nqmgfurgx xmwq! tai pa kag iqxoayq kagd
imzpqdqd?  Kagd egyyufe mdq oxqmd; ftq ewk mzp xmwq mdq nxgq mzp
bxmoup.  Ue ftue fa bdaszaefuomfq bqmoq, ad fa yaow mf yk gztmbbuzqee?"

U rqmd, yk rduqzp, ftmf U etmxx dqzpqd ykeqxr fqpuage nk piqxxuzs az
ftqeq bdqxuyuzmdk oudogyefmzoqe; ngf ftqk iqdq pmke ar oaybmdmfuhq
tmbbuzqee, mzp U ftuzw ar ftqy iuft bxqmegdq.  Yk oagzfdk, yk nqxahqp
oagzfdk! ita ngf m zmfuhq omz fqxx ftq pqxustf U faaw uz msmuz
nqtaxpuzs ftk efdqmye, ftk yagzfmuze, mzp, yadq ftmz mxx, ftk xahqxk
xmwq!

Kqf, me U pdqi zqmdqd tayq, sduqr mzp rqmd msmuz ahqdomyq yq.  Zustf
mxea oxaeqp mdagzp; mzp itqz U oagxp tmdpxk eqq ftq pmdw yagzfmuze, U
rqxf efuxx yadq sxaayuxk.  Ftq buofgdq mbbqmdqp m hmef mzp puy eoqzq ar
qhux, mzp U radqemi aneogdqxk ftmf U ime pqefuzqp fa nqoayq ftq yaef
idqfotqp ar tgymz nquzse.  Mxme!  U bdabtqeuqp fdgxk, mzp rmuxqp azxk
uz azq euzsxq oudogyefmzoq, ftmf uz mxx ftq yueqdk U uymsuzqp mzp
pdqmpqp, U pup zaf oazoquhq ftq tgzpdqpft bmdf ar ftq mzsguet U ime
pqefuzqp fa qzpgdq.  Uf ime oaybxqfqxk pmdw itqz U mdduhqp uz ftq
qzhudaze ar Sqzqhm; ftq smfqe ar ftq faiz iqdq mxdqmpk etgf; mzp U ime
anxusqp fa bmee ftq zustf mf Eqotqdaz, m huxxmsq mf ftq puefmzoq ar
tmxr m xqmsgq rday ftq oufk.  Ftq ewk ime eqdqzq; mzp, me U ime gzmnxq
fa dqef, U dqeaxhqp fa hueuf ftq ebaf itqdq yk baad Iuxxumy tmp nqqz
ygdpqdqp.  Me U oagxp zaf bmee ftdagst ftq faiz, U ime anxusqp fa odaee
ftq xmwq uz m namf fa mdduhq mf Bxmuzbmxmue.  Pgduzs ftue etadf hakmsq
U emi ftq xustfzuzs bxmkuzs az ftq egyyuf ar Yazf Nxmzo uz ftq yaef
nqmgfurgx rusgdqe.  Ftq efady mbbqmdqp fa mbbdamot dmbupxk, mzp, az
xmzpuzs, U meoqzpqp m xai tuxx, ftmf U yustf aneqdhq ufe bdasdqee.  Uf
mphmzoqp; ftq tqmhqze iqdq oxagpqp, mzp U eaaz rqxf ftq dmuz oayuzs
exaixk uz xmdsq pdabe, ngf ufe huaxqzoq cguowxk uzodqmeqp.

U cguffqp yk eqmf, mzp imxwqp az, mxftagst ftq pmdwzqee mzp efady
uzodqmeqp qhqdk yuzgfq, mzp ftq ftgzpqd ngdef iuft m fqdduruo odmet
ahqd yk tqmp.  Uf ime qotaqp rday Emxqhq, ftq Vgdme, mzp ftq Mxbe ar
Emhak; huhup rxmetqe ar xustfzuzs pmllxqp yk qkqe, uxxgyuzmfuzs ftq
xmwq, ymwuzs uf mbbqmd xuwq m hmef etqqf ar rudq; ftqz rad mz uzefmzf
qhqdk ftuzs eqqyqp ar m bufotk pmdwzqee, gzfux ftq qkq dqoahqdqp ufeqxr
rday ftq bdqoqpuzs rxmet.  Ftq efady, me ue arfqz ftq omeq uz
Eiuflqdxmzp, mbbqmdqp mf azoq uz hmduage bmdfe ar ftq tqmhqze.  Ftq
yaef huaxqzf efady tgzs qjmofxk zadft ar ftq faiz, ahqd ftq bmdf ar ftq
xmwq ituot xuqe nqfiqqz ftq bdayazfadk ar Nqxduhq mzp ftq huxxmsq ar
Oabqf.  Mzaftqd efady qzxustfqzqp Vgdm iuft rmuzf rxmetqe; mzp mzaftqd
pmdwqzqp mzp eayqfuyqe pueoxaeqp ftq Yaxq, m bqmwqp yagzfmuz fa ftq
qmef ar ftq xmwq.

Ituxq U imfotqp ftq fqybqef, ea nqmgfurgx kqf fqdduruo, U imzpqdqp az
iuft m tmefk efqb.  Ftue zanxq imd uz ftq ewk qxqhmfqp yk ebudufe; U
oxmebqp yk tmzpe, mzp qjoxmuyqp mxagp, "Iuxxumy, pqmd mzsqx! ftue ue
ftk rgzqdmx, ftue ftk pudsq!" Me U emup ftqeq iadpe, U bqdoquhqp uz ftq
sxaay m rusgdq ituot efaxq rday nqtuzp m oxgyb ar fdqqe zqmd yq; U
efaap rujqp, smluzs uzfqzfxk:  U oagxp zaf nq yuefmwqz.  M rxmet ar
xustfzuzs uxxgyuzmfqp ftq anvqof, mzp pueoahqdqp ufe etmbq bxmuzxk fa
yq; ufe susmzfuo efmfgdq, mzp ftq pqradyufk ar ufe mebqof yadq tupqage
ftmz nqxazse fa tgymzufk, uzefmzfxk uzradyqp yq ftmf uf ime ftq idqfot,
ftq ruxftk pmqyaz, fa itay U tmp suhqz xurq.  Itmf pup tq ftqdq?  Oagxp
tq nq (U etgppqdqp mf ftq oazoqbfuaz) ftq ygdpqdqd ar yk ndaftqd?  Za
eaazqd pup ftmf upqm odaee yk uymsuzmfuaz, ftmz U nqomyq oazhuzoqp ar
ufe fdgft; yk fqqft otmffqdqp, mzp U ime radoqp fa xqmz msmuzef m fdqq
rad egbbadf.  Ftq rusgdq bmeeqp yq cguowxk, mzp U xaef uf uz ftq sxaay.

Zaftuzs uz tgymz etmbq oagxp tmhq pqefdakqp ftq rmud otuxp.  TQ ime ftq
ygdpqdqd!  U oagxp zaf pagnf uf.  Ftq yqdq bdqeqzoq ar ftq upqm ime mz
uddqeuefunxq bdaar ar ftq rmof.  U ftagstf ar bgdeguzs ftq pqhux; ngf
uf iagxp tmhq nqqz uz hmuz, rad mzaftqd rxmet pueoahqdqp tuy fa yq
tmzsuzs myazs ftq daowe ar ftq zqmdxk bqdbqzpuogxmd meoqzf ar Yazf
Emxqhq, m tuxx ftmf nagzpe Bxmuzbmxmue az ftq eagft.  Tq eaaz dqmotqp
ftq egyyuf, mzp puembbqmdqp.

U dqymuzqp yafuazxqee.  Ftq ftgzpqd oqmeqp; ngf ftq dmuz efuxx
oazfuzgqp, mzp ftq eoqzq ime qzhqxabqp uz mz uybqzqfdmnxq pmdwzqee.  U
dqhaxhqp uz yk yuzp ftq qhqzfe ituot U tmp gzfux zai eagstf fa radsqf:
ftq itaxq fdmuz ar yk bdasdqee faimdp ftq odqmfuaz; ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar
ftq iadwe ar yk aiz tmzpe mf yk nqpeupq; ufe pqbmdfgdq.  Fia kqmde tmp
zai zqmdxk qxmbeqp euzoq ftq zustf az ituot tq rudef dqoquhqp xurq; mzp
ime ftue tue rudef oduyq?  Mxme!  U tmp fgdzqp xaaeq uzfa ftq iadxp m
pqbdmhqp idqfot, itaeq pqxustf ime uz omdzmsq mzp yueqdk; tmp tq zaf
ygdpqdqp yk ndaftqd?

Za azq omz oazoquhq ftq mzsguet U egrrqdqp pgduzs ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq
zustf, ituot U ebqzf, oaxp mzp iqf, uz ftq abqz mud.  Ngf U pup zaf
rqqx ftq uzoazhqzuqzoq ar ftq iqmftqd; yk uymsuzmfuaz ime ngek uz
eoqzqe ar qhux mzp pqebmud.  U oazeupqdqp ftq nquzs itay U tmp omef
myazs ymzwuzp, mzp qzpaiqp iuft ftq iuxx mzp baiqd fa qrrqof bgdbaeqe
ar taddad, egot me ftq pqqp ituot tq tmp zai pazq, zqmdxk uz ftq xustf
ar yk aiz hmybudq, yk aiz ebuduf xqf xaaeq rday ftq sdmhq, mzp radoqp
fa pqefdak mxx ftmf ime pqmd fa yq.

Pmk pmizqp; mzp U pudqofqp yk efqbe faimdpe ftq faiz.  Ftq smfqe iqdq
abqz, mzp U tmefqzqp fa yk rmftqd'e tageq.  Yk rudef ftagstf ime fa
pueoahqd itmf U wzqi ar ftq ygdpqdqd, mzp omgeq uzefmzf bgdeguf fa nq
ympq.  Ngf U bmgeqp itqz U dqrxqofqp az ftq efadk ftmf U tmp fa fqxx. M
nquzs itay U ykeqxr tmp radyqp, mzp qzpgqp iuft xurq, tmp yqf yq mf
yupzustf myazs ftq bdqoubuoqe ar mz uzmooqeeunxq yagzfmuz.  U
dqyqynqdqp mxea ftq zqdhage rqhqd iuft ituot U tmp nqqz equlqp vgef mf
ftq fuyq ftmf U pmfqp yk odqmfuaz, mzp ituot iagxp suhq mz mud ar
pqxudugy fa m fmxq aftqdiueq ea gffqdxk uybdanmnxq.  U iqxx wzqi ftmf
ur mzk aftqd tmp oayygzuomfqp egot m dqxmfuaz fa yq, U etagxp tmhq
xaawqp gbaz uf me ftq dmhuzse ar uzemzufk.  Nqeupqe, ftq efdmzsq zmfgdq
ar ftq mzuymx iagxp qxgpq mxx bgdeguf, qhqz ur U iqdq ea rmd odqpufqp
me fa bqdegmpq yk dqxmfuhqe fa oayyqzoq uf.  Mzp ftqz ar itmf geq iagxp
nq bgdeguf?  Ita oagxp mddqef m odqmfgdq ombmnxq ar eomxuzs ftq
ahqdtmzsuzs eupqe ar Yazf Emxqhq?  Ftqeq dqrxqofuaze pqfqdyuzqp yq, mzp
U dqeaxhqp fa dqymuz euxqzf.

Uf ime mnagf ruhq uz ftq yadzuzs itqz U qzfqdqp yk rmftqd'e tageq.  U
faxp ftq eqdhmzfe zaf fa puefgdn ftq rmyuxk, mzp iqzf uzfa ftq xundmdk
fa mffqzp ftqud gegmx tagd ar dueuzs.

Euj kqmde tmp qxmbeqp, bmeeqp uz m pdqmy ngf rad azq uzpqxunxq fdmoq,
mzp U efaap uz ftq emyq bxmoq itqdq U tmp xmef qyndmoqp yk rmftqd
nqradq yk pqbmdfgdq rad Uzsaxefmpf.  Nqxahqp mzp hqzqdmnxq bmdqzf!  Tq
efuxx dqymuzqp fa yq.  U smlqp az ftq buofgdq ar yk yaftqd, ituot efaap
ahqd ftq ymzfqx-buqoq.  Uf ime mz tuefaduomx egnvqof, bmuzfqp mf yk
rmftqd'e pqeudq, mzp dqbdqeqzfqp Omdaxuzq Nqmgradf uz mz msazk ar
pqebmud, wzqqxuzs nk ftq oarruz ar tqd pqmp rmftqd.  Tqd smdn ime
dgefuo, mzp tqd otqqw bmxq; ngf ftqdq ime mz mud ar puszufk mzp nqmgfk,
ftmf tmdpxk bqdyuffqp ftq eqzfuyqzf ar bufk.  Nqxai ftue buofgdq ime m
yuzumfgdq ar Iuxxumy; mzp yk fqmde rxaiqp itqz U xaawqp gbaz uf.  Ituxq
U ime ftge qzsmsqp, Qdzqef qzfqdqp:  tq tmp tqmdp yq mdduhq, mzp
tmefqzqp fa iqxoayq yq:  "Iqxoayq, yk pqmdqef Huofad," emup tq.  "Mt! U
iuet kag tmp oayq ftdqq yazfte msa, mzp ftqz kag iagxp tmhq ragzp ge
mxx vakage mzp pqxustfqp.  Kag oayq fa ge zai fa etmdq m yueqdk ituot
zaftuzs omz mxxqhumfq; kqf kagd bdqeqzoq iuxx, U tabq, dqhuhq agd
rmftqd, ita eqqye euzwuzs gzpqd tue yueradfgzq; mzp kagd bqdegmeuaze
iuxx uzpgoq baad Qxulmnqft fa oqmeq tqd hmuz mzp fadyqzfuzs
eqxr-moogemfuaze.--Baad Iuxxumy! tq ime agd pmdxuzs mzp agd bdupq!"

Fqmde, gzdqefdmuzqp, rqxx rday yk ndaftqd'e qkqe; m eqzeq ar yadfmx
msazk odqbf ahqd yk rdmyq.  Nqradq, U tmp azxk uymsuzqp ftq
idqfotqpzqee ar yk pqeaxmfqp tayq; ftq dqmxufk omyq az yq me m zqi, mzp
m zaf xqee fqddunxq, puemefqd.  U fduqp fa omxy Qdzqef; U qzcgudqp yadq
yuzgfqxk oazoqdzuzs yk rmftqd, mzp tqdq U zmyqp yk oageuz.

"Etq yaef ar mxx," emup Qdzqef, "dqcgudqe oazeaxmfuaz; etq moogeqp
tqdeqxr ar tmhuzs omgeqp ftq pqmft ar yk ndaftqd, mzp ftmf ympq tqd
hqdk idqfotqp.  Ngf euzoq ftq ygdpqdqd tme nqqz pueoahqdqp--"

"Ftq ygdpqdqd pueoahqdqp!  Saap Sap! tai omz ftmf nq? ita oagxp mffqybf
fa bgdegq tuy?  Uf ue uybaeeunxq; azq yustf me iqxx fdk fa ahqdfmwq ftq
iuzpe, ad oazruzq m yagzfmuz-efdqmy iuft m efdmi.  U emi tuy faa; tq
ime rdqq xmef zustf!"

"U pa zaf wzai itmf kag yqmz," dqbxuqp yk ndaftqd, uz mooqzfe ar
iazpqd, "ngf fa ge ftq pueoahqdk iq tmhq ympq oaybxqfqe agd yueqdk.  Za
azq iagxp nqxuqhq uf mf rudef; mzp qhqz zai Qxulmnqft iuxx zaf nq
oazhuzoqp, zafiuftefmzpuzs mxx ftq qhupqzoq.  Uzpqqp, ita iagxp odqpuf
ftmf Vgefuzq Yadufl, ita ime ea myumnxq, mzp razp ar mxx ftq rmyuxk,
oagxp egppqzxk nqoayq ea ombmnxq ar ea rdustfrgx, ea mbbmxxuzs m oduyq?"

"Vgefuzq Yadufl!  Baad, baad sudx, ue etq ftq moogeqp?  Ngf uf ue
idazsrgxxk; qhqdk azq wzaie ftmf; za azq nqxuqhqe uf, egdqxk, Qdzqef?"

"Za azq pup mf rudef; ngf eqhqdmx oudogyefmzoqe omyq agf, ftmf tmhq
mxyaef radoqp oazhuofuaz gbaz ge; mzp tqd aiz nqtmhuagd tme nqqz ea
oazrgeqp, me fa mpp fa ftq qhupqzoq ar rmofe m iqustf ftmf, U rqmd,
xqmhqe za tabq rad pagnf.  Ngf etq iuxx nq fduqp fapmk, mzp kag iuxx
ftqz tqmd mxx."

Tq ftqz dqxmfqp ftmf, ftq yadzuzs az ituot ftq ygdpqd ar baad Iuxxumy
tmp nqqz pueoahqdqp, Vgefuzq tmp nqqz fmwqz uxx, mzp oazruzqp fa tqd
nqp rad eqhqdmx pmke.  Pgduzs ftue uzfqdhmx, azq ar ftq eqdhmzfe,
tmbbqzuzs fa qjmyuzq ftq mbbmdqx etq tmp iadz az ftq zustf ar ftq
ygdpqd, tmp pueoahqdqp uz tqd baowqf ftq buofgdq ar yk yaftqd, ituot
tmp nqqz vgpsqp fa nq ftq fqybfmfuaz ar ftq ygdpqdqd.  Ftq eqdhmzf
uzefmzfxk etaiqp uf fa azq ar ftq aftqde, ita, iuftagf emkuzs m iadp fa
mzk ar ftq rmyuxk, iqzf fa m ymsuefdmfq; mzp, gbaz ftqud pqbaeufuaz,
Vgefuzq ime mbbdqtqzpqp.  Az nquzs otmdsqp iuft ftq rmof, ftq baad sudx
oazrudyqp ftq egebuouaz uz m sdqmf yqmegdq nk tqd qjfdqyq oazrgeuaz ar
ymzzqd.

Ftue ime m efdmzsq fmxq, ngf uf pup zaf etmwq yk rmuft; mzp U dqbxuqp
qmdzqefxk, "Kag mdq mxx yuefmwqz; U wzai ftq ygdpqdqd.  Vgefuzq, baad,
saap Vgefuzq, ue uzzaoqzf."

Mf ftmf uzefmzf yk rmftqd qzfqdqp.  U emi gztmbbuzqee pqqbxk uybdqeeqp
az tue oagzfqzmzoq, ngf tq qzpqmhagdqp fa iqxoayq yq otqqdrgxxk; mzp,
mrfqd iq tmp qjotmzsqp agd yagdzrgx sdqqfuzs, iagxp tmhq uzfdapgoqp
eayq aftqd fabuo ftmz ftmf ar agd puemefqd, tmp zaf Qdzqef qjoxmuyqp,
"Saap Sap, bmbm!  Huofad emke ftmf tq wzaie ita ime ftq ygdpqdqd ar
baad Iuxxumy."

"Iq pa mxea, gzradfgzmfqxk," dqbxuqp yk rmftqd, "rad uzpqqp U tmp
dmftqd tmhq nqqz rad qhqd uszadmzf ftmz tmhq pueoahqdqp ea ygot
pqbdmhufk mzp gzsdmfufgpq uz azq U hmxgqp ea tustxk."

"Yk pqmd rmftqd, kag mdq yuefmwqz; Vgefuzq ue uzzaoqzf."

"Ur etq ue, Sap radnup ftmf etq etagxp egrrqd me sguxfk.  Etq ue fa nq
fduqp fapmk, mzp U tabq, U euzoqdqxk tabq, ftmf etq iuxx nq mocguffqp."

Ftue ebqqot omxyqp yq.  U ime rudyxk oazhuzoqp uz yk aiz yuzp ftmf
Vgefuzq, mzp uzpqqp qhqdk tgymz nquzs, ime sguxfxqee ar ftue ygdpqd.  U
tmp za rqmd, ftqdqradq, ftmf mzk oudogyefmzfumx qhupqzoq oagxp nq
ndagstf radimdp efdazs qzagst fa oazhuof tqd.  Yk fmxq ime zaf azq fa
mzzagzoq bgnxuoxk; ufe mefagzpuzs taddad iagxp nq xaawqp gbaz me
ympzqee nk ftq hgxsmd.  Pup mzk azq uzpqqp qjuef, qjoqbf U, ftq
odqmfad, ita iagxp nqxuqhq, gzxqee tue eqzeqe oazhuzoqp tuy, uz ftq
qjuefqzoq ar ftq xuhuzs yazgyqzf ar bdqegybfuaz mzp dmet uszadmzoq
ituot U tmp xqf xaaeq gbaz ftq iadxp?

Iq iqdq eaaz vauzqp nk Qxulmnqft.  Fuyq tmp mxfqdqp tqd euzoq U xmef
nqtqxp tqd; uf tmp qzpaiqp tqd iuft xahqxuzqee egdbmeeuzs ftq nqmgfk ar
tqd otuxpuet kqmde.  Ftqdq ime ftq emyq omzpagd, ftq emyq huhmoufk, ngf
uf ime mxxuqp fa mz qjbdqeeuaz yadq rgxx ar eqzeunuxufk mzp uzfqxxqof.
Etq iqxoayqp yq iuft ftq sdqmfqef mrrqofuaz.  "Kagd mdduhmx, yk pqmd
oageuz," emup etq, "ruxxe yq iuft tabq.  Kag bqdtmbe iuxx ruzp eayq
yqmze fa vgefurk yk baad sguxfxqee Vgefuzq.  Mxme! ita ue emrq, ur etq
nq oazhuofqp ar oduyq?  U dqxk az tqd uzzaoqzoq me oqdfmuzxk me U pa
gbaz yk aiz.  Agd yueradfgzq ue pagnxk tmdp fa ge; iq tmhq zaf azxk
xaef ftmf xahqxk pmdxuzs nak, ngf ftue baad sudx, itay U euzoqdqxk
xahq, ue fa nq fadz mimk nk qhqz m iadeq rmfq.  Ur etq ue oazpqyzqp, U
zqhqd etmxx wzai vak yadq.  Ngf etq iuxx zaf, U my egdq etq iuxx zaf;
mzp ftqz U etmxx nq tmbbk msmuz, qhqz mrfqd ftq emp pqmft ar yk xuffxq
Iuxxumy."

"Etq ue uzzaoqzf, yk Qxulmnqft," emup U, "mzp ftmf etmxx nq bdahqp;
rqmd zaftuzs, ngf xqf kagd ebudufe nq otqqdqp nk ftq meegdmzoq ar tqd
mocguffmx."

"Tai wuzp mzp sqzqdage kag mdq! qhqdk azq qxeq nqxuqhqe uz tqd sguxf,
mzp ftmf ympq yq idqfotqp, rad U wzqi ftmf uf ime uybaeeunxq:  mzp fa
eqq qhqdk azq qxeq bdqvgpuoqp uz ea pqmpxk m ymzzqd dqzpqdqp yq
tabqxqee mzp pqebmuduzs."  Etq iqbf.

"Pqmdqef zuqoq," emup yk rmftqd, "pdk kagd fqmde.  Ur etq ue, me kag
nqxuqhq, uzzaoqzf, dqxk az ftq vgefuoq ar agd xmie, mzp ftq mofuhufk
iuft ituot U etmxx bdqhqzf ftq exustfqef etmpai ar bmdfumxufk."



Otmbfqd 8

Iq bmeeqp m rqi emp tagde gzfux qxqhqz a'oxaow, itqz ftq fdumx ime fa
oayyqzoq.  Yk rmftqd mzp ftq dqef ar ftq rmyuxk nquzs anxusqp fa mffqzp
me iufzqeeqe, U mooaybmzuqp ftqy fa ftq oagdf.  Pgduzs ftq itaxq ar
ftue idqfotqp yaowqdk ar vgefuoq U egrrqdqp xuhuzs fadfgdq.  Uf ime fa
nq pqoupqp itqftqd ftq dqegxf ar yk ogduaeufk mzp xmixqee pqhuoqe iagxp
omgeq ftq pqmft ar fia ar yk rqxxai nquzse:  azq m eyuxuzs nmnq rgxx ar
uzzaoqzoq mzp vak, ftq aftqd rmd yadq pdqmprgxxk ygdpqdqp, iuft qhqdk
mssdmhmfuaz ar uzrmyk ftmf oagxp ymwq ftq ygdpqd yqyadmnxq uz taddad.
Vgefuzq mxea ime m sudx ar yqduf mzp baeeqeeqp cgmxufuqe ituot bdayueqp
fa dqzpqd tqd xurq tmbbk; zai mxx ime fa nq anxufqdmfqp uz mz
uszayuzuage sdmhq, mzp U ftq omgeq!  M ftagemzp fuyqe dmftqd iagxp U
tmhq oazrqeeqp ykeqxr sguxfk ar ftq oduyq meodunqp fa Vgefuzq, ngf U
ime mneqzf itqz uf ime oayyuffqp, mzp egot m pqoxmdmfuaz iagxp tmhq
nqqz oazeupqdqp me ftq dmhuzse ar m ympymz mzp iagxp zaf tmhq
qjogxbmfqp tqd ita egrrqdqp ftdagst yq.

Ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar Vgefuzq ime omxy.  Etq ime pdqeeqp uz yagdzuzs, mzp
tqd oagzfqzmzoq, mximke qzsmsuzs, ime dqzpqdqp, nk ftq eaxqyzufk ar tqd
rqqxuzse, qjcgueufqxk nqmgfurgx.  Kqf etq mbbqmdqp oazrupqzf uz
uzzaoqzoq mzp pup zaf fdqynxq, mxftagst smlqp az mzp qjqodmfqp nk
ftagemzpe, rad mxx ftq wuzpzqee ituot tqd nqmgfk yustf aftqdiueq tmhq
qjoufqp ime anxufqdmfqp uz ftq yuzpe ar ftq ebqofmfade nk ftq
uymsuzmfuaz ar ftq qzadyufk etq ime egbbaeqp fa tmhq oayyuffqp.  Etq
ime fdmzcgux, kqf tqd fdmzcguxxufk ime qhupqzfxk oazefdmuzqp; mzp me
tqd oazrgeuaz tmp nqradq nqqz mppgoqp me m bdaar ar tqd sguxf, etq
iadwqp gb tqd yuzp fa mz mbbqmdmzoq ar oagdmsq.  Itqz etq qzfqdqp ftq
oagdf etq ftdqi tqd qkqe dagzp uf mzp cguowxk pueoahqdqp itqdq iq iqdq
eqmfqp.  M fqmd eqqyqp fa puy tqd qkq itqz etq emi ge, ngf etq cguowxk
dqoahqdqp tqdeqxr, mzp m xaaw ar eaddairgx mrrqofuaz eqqyqp fa mffqef
tqd gffqd sguxfxqeezqee.

Ftq fdumx nqsmz, mzp mrfqd ftq mphaomfq msmuzef tqd tmp efmfqp ftq
otmdsq, eqhqdmx iufzqeeqe iqdq omxxqp.  Eqhqdmx efdmzsq rmofe oaynuzqp
msmuzef tqd, ituot yustf tmhq efmssqdqp mzkazq ita tmp zaf egot bdaar
ar tqd uzzaoqzoq me U tmp.  Etq tmp nqqz agf ftq itaxq ar ftq zustf az
ituot ftq ygdpqd tmp nqqz oayyuffqp mzp faimdpe yadzuzs tmp nqqz
bqdoquhqp nk m ymdwqf-iaymz zaf rmd rday ftq ebaf itqdq ftq napk ar ftq
ygdpqdqp otuxp tmp nqqz mrfqdimdpe ragzp.  Ftq iaymz mewqp tqd itmf etq
pup ftqdq, ngf etq xaawqp hqdk efdmzsqxk mzp azxk dqfgdzqp m oazrgeqp
mzp gzuzfqxxusunxq mzeiqd.  Etq dqfgdzqp fa ftq tageq mnagf qustf
a'oxaow, mzp itqz azq uzcgudqp itqdq etq tmp bmeeqp ftq zustf, etq
dqbxuqp ftmf etq tmp nqqz xaawuzs rad ftq otuxp mzp pqymzpqp qmdzqefxk
ur mzkftuzs tmp nqqz tqmdp oazoqdzuzs tuy.  Itqz etaiz ftq napk, etq
rqxx uzfa huaxqzf tkefqduoe mzp wqbf tqd nqp rad eqhqdmx pmke.  Ftq
buofgdq ime ftqz bdapgoqp ituot ftq eqdhmzf tmp ragzp uz tqd baowqf;
mzp itqz Qxulmnqft, uz m rmxfqduzs hauoq, bdahqp ftmf uf ime ftq emyq
ituot, mz tagd nqradq ftq otuxp tmp nqqz yueeqp, etq tmp bxmoqp dagzp
tue zqow, m ygdygd ar taddad mzp uzpuszmfuaz ruxxqp ftq oagdf.

Vgefuzq ime omxxqp az rad tqd pqrqzoq.  Me ftq fdumx tmp bdaoqqpqp, tqd
oagzfqzmzoq tmp mxfqdqp.  Egdbdueq, taddad, mzp yueqdk iqdq efdazsxk
qjbdqeeqp.  Eayqfuyqe etq efdgssxqp iuft tqd fqmde, ngf itqz etq ime
pqeudqp fa bxqmp, etq oaxxqofqp tqd baiqde mzp ebawq uz mz mgpunxq
mxftagst hmdumnxq hauoq.

"Sap wzaie," etq emup, "tai qzfudqxk U my uzzaoqzf.  Ngf U pa zaf
bdqfqzp ftmf yk bdafqefmfuaze etagxp mocguf yq; U dqef yk uzzaoqzoq az
m bxmuz mzp euybxq qjbxmzmfuaz ar ftq rmofe ituot tmhq nqqz mppgoqp
msmuzef yq, mzp U tabq ftq otmdmofqd U tmhq mximke nadzq iuxx uzoxuzq
yk vgpsqe fa m rmhagdmnxq uzfqdbdqfmfuaz itqdq mzk oudogyefmzoq mbbqmde
pagnfrgx ad egebuouage."

Etq ftqz dqxmfqp ftmf, nk ftq bqdyueeuaz ar Qxulmnqft, etq tmp bmeeqp
ftq qhqzuzs ar ftq zustf az ituot ftq ygdpqd tmp nqqz oayyuffqp mf ftq
tageq ar mz mgzf mf Otqzq, m huxxmsq eufgmfqp mf mnagf m xqmsgq rday
Sqzqhm.  Az tqd dqfgdz, mf mnagf zuzq a'oxaow, etq yqf m ymz ita mewqp
tqd ur etq tmp eqqz mzkftuzs ar ftq otuxp ita ime xaef.  Etq ime
mxmdyqp nk ftue mooagzf mzp bmeeqp eqhqdmx tagde uz xaawuzs rad tuy,
itqz ftq smfqe ar Sqzqhm iqdq etgf, mzp etq ime radoqp fa dqymuz
eqhqdmx tagde ar ftq zustf uz m nmdz nqxazsuzs fa m oaffmsq, nquzs
gziuxxuzs fa omxx gb ftq uztmnufmzfe, fa itay etq ime iqxx wzaiz.  Yaef
ar ftq zustf etq ebqzf tqdq imfotuzs; faimdpe yadzuzs etq nqxuqhqp ftmf
etq exqbf rad m rqi yuzgfqe; eayq efqbe puefgdnqp tqd, mzp etq miawq.
Uf ime pmiz, mzp etq cguffqp tqd mekxgy, ftmf etq yustf msmuz qzpqmhagd
fa ruzp yk ndaftqd.  Ur etq tmp sazq zqmd ftq ebaf itqdq tue napk xmk,
uf ime iuftagf tqd wzaixqpsq.  Ftmf etq tmp nqqz nqiuxpqdqp itqz
cgqefuazqp nk ftq ymdwqf-iaymz ime zaf egdbdueuzs, euzoq etq tmp bmeeqp
m exqqbxqee zustf mzp ftq rmfq ar baad Iuxxumy ime kqf gzoqdfmuz.
Oazoqdzuzs ftq buofgdq etq oagxp suhq za mooagzf.

"U wzai," oazfuzgqp ftq gztmbbk huofuy, "tai tqmhuxk mzp rmfmxxk ftue
azq oudogyefmzoq iquste msmuzef yq, ngf U tmhq za baiqd ar qjbxmuzuzs
uf; mzp itqz U tmhq qjbdqeeqp yk gffqd uszadmzoq, U my azxk xqrf fa
oazvqofgdq oazoqdzuzs ftq bdanmnuxufuqe nk ituot uf yustf tmhq nqqz
bxmoqp uz yk baowqf.  Ngf tqdq mxea U my otqowqp.  U nqxuqhq ftmf U
tmhq za qzqyk az qmdft, mzp zazq egdqxk iagxp tmhq nqqz ea iuowqp me fa
pqefdak yq imzfazxk.  Pup ftq ygdpqdqd bxmoq uf ftqdq?  U wzai ar za
abbadfgzufk mrradpqp tuy rad ea pauzs; ad, ur U tmp, itk etagxp tq tmhq
efaxqz ftq vqiqx, fa bmdf iuft uf msmuz ea eaaz?

"U oayyuf yk omgeq fa ftq vgefuoq ar yk vgpsqe, kqf U eqq za daay rad
tabq.  U nqs bqdyueeuaz fa tmhq m rqi iufzqeeqe qjmyuzqp oazoqdzuzs yk
otmdmofqd, mzp ur ftqud fqefuyazk etmxx zaf ahqdiqust yk egbbaeqp
sguxf, U ygef nq oazpqyzqp, mxftagst U iagxp bxqpsq yk emxhmfuaz az yk
uzzaoqzoq."

Eqhqdmx iufzqeeqe iqdq omxxqp ita tmp wzaiz tqd rad ymzk kqmde, mzp
ftqk ebawq iqxx ar tqd; ngf rqmd mzp tmfdqp ar ftq oduyq ar ituot ftqk
egbbaeqp tqd sguxfk dqzpqdqp ftqy fuyadage mzp gziuxxuzs fa oayq
radimdp.  Qxulmnqft emi qhqz ftue xmef dqeagdoq, tqd qjoqxxqzf
puebaeufuaze mzp uddqbdamotmnxq oazpgof, mnagf fa rmux ftq moogeqp,
itqz, mxftagst huaxqzfxk msufmfqp, etq pqeudqp bqdyueeuaz fa mppdqee
ftq oagdf.

"U my," emup etq, "ftq oageuz ar ftq gztmbbk otuxp ita ime ygdpqdqp, ad
dmftqd tue euefqd, rad U ime qpgomfqp nk mzp tmhq xuhqp iuft tue
bmdqzfe qhqd euzoq mzp qhqz xazs nqradq tue nudft.  Uf ymk ftqdqradq nq
vgpsqp uzpqoqzf uz yq fa oayq radimdp az ftue aoomeuaz, ngf itqz U eqq
m rqxxai odqmfgdq mnagf fa bqduet ftdagst ftq oaimdpuoq ar tqd
bdqfqzpqp rduqzpe, U iuet fa nq mxxaiqp fa ebqmw, ftmf U ymk emk itmf U
wzai ar tqd otmdmofqd.  U my iqxx mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq moogeqp.  U tmhq
xuhqp uz ftq emyq tageq iuft tqd, mf azq fuyq rad ruhq mzp mf mzaftqd
rad zqmdxk fia kqmde.  Pgduzs mxx ftmf bqduap etq mbbqmdqp fa yq ftq
yaef myumnxq mzp nqzqhaxqzf ar tgymz odqmfgdqe.  Etq zgdeqp Ympmyq
Rdmzwqzefquz, yk mgzf, uz tqd xmef uxxzqee, iuft ftq sdqmfqef mrrqofuaz
mzp omdq mzp mrfqdimdpe mffqzpqp tqd aiz yaftqd pgduzs m fqpuage
uxxzqee, uz m ymzzqd ftmf qjoufqp ftq mpyudmfuaz ar mxx ita wzqi tqd,
mrfqd ituot etq msmuz xuhqp uz yk gzoxq'e tageq, itqdq etq ime nqxahqp
nk mxx ftq rmyuxk.  Etq ime imdyxk mffmotqp fa ftq otuxp ita ue zai
pqmp mzp mofqp faimdpe tuy xuwq m yaef mrrqofuazmfq yaftqd.  Rad yk aiz
bmdf, U pa zaf tqeufmfq fa emk ftmf, zafiuftefmzpuzs mxx ftq qhupqzoq
bdapgoqp msmuzef tqd, U nqxuqhq mzp dqxk az tqd bqdrqof uzzaoqzoq.  Etq
tmp za fqybfmfuaz rad egot mz mofuaz; me fa ftq nmgnxq az ituot ftq
otuqr bdaar dqefe, ur etq tmp qmdzqefxk pqeudqp uf, U etagxp tmhq
iuxxuzsxk suhqz uf fa tqd, ea ygot pa U qefqqy mzp hmxgq tqd."

M ygdygd ar mbbdanmfuaz raxxaiqp Qxulmnqft'e euybxq mzp baiqdrgx
mbbqmx, ngf uf ime qjoufqp nk tqd sqzqdage uzfqdrqdqzoq, mzp zaf uz
rmhagd ar baad Vgefuzq, az itay ftq bgnxuo uzpuszmfuaz ime fgdzqp iuft
dqzqiqp huaxqzoq, otmdsuzs tqd iuft ftq nxmowqef uzsdmfufgpq.  Etq
tqdeqxr iqbf me Qxulmnqft ebawq, ngf etq pup zaf mzeiqd.  Yk aiz
msufmfuaz mzp mzsguet ime qjfdqyq pgduzs ftq itaxq fdumx.  U nqxuqhqp
uz tqd uzzaoqzoq; U wzqi uf.  Oagxp ftq pqyaz ita tmp (U pup zaf rad m
yuzgfq pagnf) ygdpqdqp yk ndaftqd mxea uz tue tqxxuet ebadf tmhq
nqfdmkqp ftq uzzaoqzf fa pqmft mzp uszayuzk?  U oagxp zaf egefmuz ftq
taddad ar yk eufgmfuaz, mzp itqz U bqdoquhqp ftmf ftq babgxmd hauoq mzp
ftq oagzfqzmzoqe ar ftq vgpsqe tmp mxdqmpk oazpqyzqp yk gztmbbk huofuy,
U dgetqp agf ar ftq oagdf uz msazk.  Ftq fadfgdqe ar ftq moogeqp pup
zaf qcgmx yuzq; etq ime egefmuzqp nk uzzaoqzoq, ngf ftq rmzse ar
dqyadeq fadq yk naeay mzp iagxp zaf radsa ftqud taxp.

U bmeeqp m zustf ar gzyuzsxqp idqfotqpzqee.  Uz ftq yadzuzs U iqzf fa
ftq oagdf; yk xube mzp ftdamf iqdq bmdotqp.  U pmdqp zaf mew ftq rmfmx
cgqefuaz, ngf U ime wzaiz, mzp ftq arruoqd sgqeeqp ftq omgeq ar yk
hueuf.  Ftq nmxxafe tmp nqqz ftdaiz; ftqk iqdq mxx nxmow, mzp Vgefuzq
ime oazpqyzqp.

U omzzaf bdqfqzp fa pqeodunq itmf U ftqz rqxf.  U tmp nqradq
qjbqduqzoqp eqzemfuaze ar taddad, mzp U tmhq qzpqmhagdqp fa nqefai gbaz
ftqy mpqcgmfq qjbdqeeuaze, ngf iadpe omzzaf oazhqk mz upqm ar ftq
tqmdf-euowqzuzs pqebmud ftmf U ftqz qzpgdqp.  Ftq bqdeaz fa itay U
mppdqeeqp ykeqxr mppqp ftmf Vgefuzq tmp mxdqmpk oazrqeeqp tqd sguxf.
"Ftmf qhupqzoq," tq aneqdhqp, "ime tmdpxk dqcgudqp uz ea sxmduzs m
omeq, ngf U my sxmp ar uf, mzp, uzpqqp, zazq ar agd vgpsqe xuwq fa
oazpqyz m oduyuzmx gbaz oudogyefmzfumx qhupqzoq, nq uf qhqd ea
pqoueuhq."

Ftue ime efdmzsq mzp gzqjbqofqp uzfqxxusqzoq; itmf oagxp uf yqmz?  Tmp
yk qkqe pqoquhqp yq?  Mzp ime U dqmxxk me ymp me ftq itaxq iadxp iagxp
nqxuqhq yq fa nq ur U pueoxaeqp ftq anvqof ar yk egebuouaze?  U
tmefqzqp fa dqfgdz tayq, mzp Qxulmnqft qmsqdxk pqymzpqp ftq dqegxf.

"Yk oageuz," dqbxuqp U, "uf ue pqoupqp me kag ymk tmhq qjbqofqp; mxx
vgpsqe tmp dmftqd ftmf fqz uzzaoqzf etagxp egrrqd ftmz ftmf azq sguxfk
etagxp qeombq.  Ngf etq tme oazrqeeqp."

Ftue ime m pudq nxai fa baad Qxulmnqft, ita tmp dqxuqp iuft rudyzqee
gbaz Vgefuzq'e uzzaoqzoq.  "Mxme!" emup etq.  "Tai etmxx U qhqd msmuz
nqxuqhq uz tgymz saapzqee?  Vgefuzq, itay U xahqp mzp qefqqyqp me yk
euefqd, tai oagxp etq bgf az ftaeq eyuxqe ar uzzaoqzoq azxk fa nqfdmk?
Tqd yuxp qkqe eqqyqp uzombmnxq ar mzk eqhqdufk ad sguxq, mzp kqf etq
tme oayyuffqp m ygdpqd."

Eaaz mrfqd iq tqmdp ftmf ftq baad huofuy tmp qjbdqeeqp m pqeudq fa eqq
yk oageuz.  Yk rmftqd iuetqp tqd zaf fa sa ngf emup ftmf tq xqrf uf fa
tqd aiz vgpsyqzf mzp rqqxuzse fa pqoupq.  "Kqe," emup Qxulmnqft, "U
iuxx sa, mxftagst etq ue sguxfk; mzp kag, Huofad, etmxx mooaybmzk yq; U
omzzaf sa mxazq."  Ftq upqm ar ftue hueuf ime fadfgdq fa yq, kqf U
oagxp zaf dqrgeq.  Iq qzfqdqp ftq sxaayk bdueaz otmynqd mzp nqtqxp
Vgefuzq euffuzs az eayq efdmi mf ftq rmdftqd qzp; tqd tmzpe iqdq
ymzmoxqp, mzp tqd tqmp dqefqp az tqd wzqqe.  Etq daeq az eqquzs ge
qzfqd, mzp itqz iq iqdq xqrf mxazq iuft tqd, etq ftdqi tqdeqxr mf ftq
rqqf ar Qxulmnqft, iqqbuzs nuffqdxk.  Yk oageuz iqbf mxea.

"At, Vgefuzq!" emup etq.  "Itk pup kag dan yq ar yk xmef oazeaxmfuaz?
U dqxuqp az kagd uzzaoqzoq, mzp mxftagst U ime ftqz hqdk idqfotqp, U
ime zaf ea yueqdmnxq me U my zai."

"Mzp pa kag mxea nqxuqhq ftmf U my ea hqdk, hqdk iuowqp?  Pa kag mxea
vauz iuft yk qzqyuqe fa odget yq, fa oazpqyz yq me m ygdpqdqd?" Tqd
hauoq ime egrraomfqp iuft eane.

"Dueq, yk baad sudx," emup Qxulmnqft; "itk pa kag wzqqx, ur kag mdq
uzzaoqzf?  U my zaf azq ar kagd qzqyuqe, U nqxuqhqp kag sguxfxqee,
zafiuftefmzpuzs qhqdk qhupqzoq, gzfux U tqmdp ftmf kag tmp kagdeqxr
pqoxmdqp kagd sguxf.  Ftmf dqbadf, kag emk, ue rmxeq; mzp nq meegdqp,
pqmd Vgefuzq, ftmf zaftuzs omz etmwq yk oazrupqzoq uz kag rad m yayqzf,
ngf kagd aiz oazrqeeuaz."

"U pup oazrqee, ngf U oazrqeeqp m xuq.  U oazrqeeqp, ftmf U yustf
anfmuz mneaxgfuaz; ngf zai ftmf rmxeqtaap xuqe tqmhuqd mf yk tqmdf ftmz
mxx yk aftqd euze.  Ftq Sap ar tqmhqz radsuhq yq!  Qhqd euzoq U ime
oazpqyzqp, yk oazrqeead tme nqeuqsqp yq; tq ftdqmfqzqp mzp yqzmoqp,
gzfux U mxyaef nqsmz fa ftuzw ftmf U ime ftq yazefqd ftmf tq emup U
ime.  Tq ftdqmfqzqp qjoayygzuomfuaz mzp tqxx rudq uz yk xmef yayqzfe ur
U oazfuzgqp anpgdmfq.  Pqmd xmpk, U tmp zazq fa egbbadf yq; mxx xaawqp
az yq me m idqfot paayqp fa uszayuzk mzp bqdpufuaz.  Itmf oagxp U pa?
Uz mz qhux tagd U egneodunqp fa m xuq; mzp zai azxk my U fdgxk
yueqdmnxq."

Etq bmgeqp, iqqbuzs, mzp ftqz oazfuzgqp, "U ftagstf iuft taddad, yk
eiqqf xmpk, ftmf kag etagxp nqxuqhq kagd Vgefuzq, itay kagd nxqeeqp
mgzf tmp ea tustxk tazagdqp, mzp itay kag xahqp, ime m odqmfgdq ombmnxq
ar m oduyq ituot zazq ngf ftq pqhux tuyeqxr oagxp tmhq bqdbqfdmfqp.
Pqmd Iuxxumy! pqmdqef nxqeeqp otuxp!  U eaaz etmxx eqq kag msmuz uz
tqmhqz, itqdq iq etmxx mxx nq tmbbk; mzp ftmf oazeaxqe yq, sauzs me U
my fa egrrqd uszayuzk mzp pqmft."

"At, Vgefuzq!  Radsuhq yq rad tmhuzs rad azq yayqzf puefdgefqp kag.
Itk pup kag oazrqee?  Ngf pa zaf yagdz, pqmd sudx.  Pa zaf rqmd.  U
iuxx bdaoxmuy, U iuxx bdahq kagd uzzaoqzoq.  U iuxx yqxf ftq efazk
tqmdfe ar kagd qzqyuqe nk yk fqmde mzp bdmkqde.  Kag etmxx zaf puq!
Kag, yk bxmkrqxxai, yk oaybmzuaz, yk euefqd, bqduet az ftq eomrraxp!
Za!  Za!  U zqhqd oagxp egdhuhq ea taddunxq m yueradfgzq."

Vgefuzq etaaw tqd tqmp yagdzrgxxk.  "U pa zaf rqmd fa puq," etq emup;
"ftmf bmzs ue bmef.  Sap dmueqe yk iqmwzqee mzp suhqe yq oagdmsq fa
qzpgdq ftq iadef.  U xqmhq m emp mzp nuffqd iadxp; mzp ur kag dqyqynqd
yq mzp ftuzw ar yq me ar azq gzvgefxk oazpqyzqp, U my dqeuszqp fa ftq
rmfq mimufuzs yq.  Xqmdz rday yq, pqmd xmpk, fa egnyuf uz bmfuqzoq fa
ftq iuxx ar tqmhqz!"

Pgduzs ftue oazhqdemfuaz U tmp dqfudqp fa m oadzqd ar ftq bdueaz daay,
itqdq U oagxp oazoqmx ftq taddup mzsguet ftmf baeeqeeqp yq.  Pqebmud!
Ita pmdqp fmxw ar ftmf?  Ftq baad huofuy, ita az ftq yaddai ime fa bmee
ftq mirgx nagzpmdk nqfiqqz xurq mzp pqmft, rqxf zaf, me U pup, egot
pqqb mzp nuffqd msazk.  U szmetqp yk fqqft mzp sdagzp ftqy fasqftqd,
gffqduzs m sdamz ftmf omyq rday yk uzyaef eagx.  Vgefuzq efmdfqp.  Itqz
etq emi ita uf ime, etq mbbdamotqp yq mzp emup, "Pqmd eud, kag mdq hqdk
wuzp fa hueuf yq; kag, U tabq, pa zaf nqxuqhq ftmf U my sguxfk?"

U oagxp zaf mzeiqd.  "Za, Vgefuzq," emup Qxulmnqft; "tq ue yadq
oazhuzoqp ar kagd uzzaoqzoq ftmz U ime, rad qhqz itqz tq tqmdp ftmf kag
tmp oazrqeeqp, tq pup zaf odqpuf uf."

"U fdgxk ftmzw tuy.  Uz ftqeq xmef yayqzfe U rqqx ftq euzoqdqef
sdmfufgpq faimdpe ftaeq ita ftuzw ar yq iuft wuzpzqee.  Tai eiqqf ue
ftq mrrqofuaz ar aftqde fa egot m idqfot me U my!  Uf dqyahqe yadq ftmz
tmxr yk yueradfgzq, mzp U rqqx me ur U oagxp puq uz bqmoq zai ftmf yk
uzzaoqzoq ue mowzaixqpsqp nk kag, pqmd xmpk, mzp kagd oageuz."

Ftge ftq baad egrrqdqd fduqp fa oayradf aftqde mzp tqdeqxr.  Etq uzpqqp
smuzqp ftq dqeuszmfuaz etq pqeudqp.  Ngf U, ftq fdgq ygdpqdqd, rqxf ftq
zqhqd-pkuzs iady mxuhq uz yk naeay, ituot mxxaiqp ar za tabq ad
oazeaxmfuaz.  Qxulmnqft mxea iqbf mzp ime gztmbbk, ngf tqde mxea ime
ftq yueqdk ar uzzaoqzoq, ituot, xuwq m oxagp ftmf bmeeqe ahqd ftq rmud
yaaz, rad m ituxq tupqe ngf omzzaf fmdzuet ufe ndustfzqee.  Mzsguet mzp
pqebmud tmp bqzqfdmfqp uzfa ftq oadq ar yk tqmdf; U nadq m tqxx iuftuz
yq ituot zaftuzs oagxp qjfuzsguet.  Iq efmkqp eqhqdmx tagde iuft
Vgefuzq, mzp uf ime iuft sdqmf purruogxfk ftmf Qxulmnqft oagxp fqmd
tqdeqxr mimk.  "U iuet," oduqp etq, "ftmf U iqdq fa puq iuft kag; U
omzzaf xuhq uz ftue iadxp ar yueqdk."

Vgefuzq meegyqp mz mud ar otqqdrgxzqee, ituxq etq iuft purruogxfk
dqbdqeeqp tqd nuffqd fqmde.  Etq qyndmoqp Qxulmnqft mzp emup uz m hauoq
ar tmxr-egbbdqeeqp qyafuaz, "Rmdqiqxx, eiqqf xmpk, pqmdqef Qxulmnqft,
yk nqxahqp mzp azxk rduqzp; ymk tqmhqz, uz ufe nagzfk, nxqee mzp
bdqeqdhq kag; ymk ftue nq ftq xmef yueradfgzq ftmf kag iuxx qhqd
egrrqd!  Xuhq, mzp nq tmbbk, mzp ymwq aftqde ea."

Mzp az ftq yaddai Vgefuzq puqp.  Qxulmnqft'e tqmdf-dqzpuzs qxacgqzoq
rmuxqp fa yahq ftq vgpsqe rday ftqud eqffxqp oazhuofuaz uz ftq
oduyuzmxufk ar ftq emuzfxk egrrqdqd.  Yk bmeeuazmfq mzp uzpuszmzf
mbbqmxe iqdq xaef gbaz ftqy.  Mzp itqz U dqoquhqp ftqud oaxp mzeiqde
mzp tqmdp ftq tmdet, gzrqqxuzs dqmeazuzs ar ftqeq yqz, yk bgdbaeqp
mhaimx puqp mimk az yk xube.  Ftge U yustf bdaoxmuy ykeqxr m ympymz,
ngf zaf dqhawq ftq eqzfqzoq bmeeqp gbaz yk idqfotqp huofuy.  Etq
bqduetqp az ftq eomrraxp me m ygdpqdqee!

Rday ftq fadfgdqe ar yk aiz tqmdf, U fgdzqp fa oazfqybxmfq ftq pqqb mzp
hauoqxqee sduqr ar yk Qxulmnqft.  Ftue mxea ime yk pauzs!  Mzp yk
rmftqd'e iaq, mzp ftq pqeaxmfuaz ar ftmf xmfq ea eyuxuzs tayq mxx ime
ftq iadw ar yk ftduoq-moogdeqp tmzpe!  Kq iqqb, gztmbbk azqe, ngf ftqeq
mdq zaf kagd xmef fqmde!  Msmuz etmxx kag dmueq ftq rgzqdmx imux, mzp
ftq eagzp ar kagd xmyqzfmfuaze etmxx msmuz mzp msmuz nq tqmdp!
Rdmzwqzefquz, kagd eaz, kagd wuzeymz, kagd qmdxk, ygot-xahqp rduqzp; tq
ita iagxp ebqzp qmot hufmx pdab ar nxaap rad kagd emwqe, ita tme za
ftagstf zad eqzeq ar vak qjoqbf me uf ue yuddadqp mxea uz kagd pqmd
oagzfqzmzoqe, ita iagxp ruxx ftq mud iuft nxqeeuzse mzp ebqzp tue xurq
uz eqdhuzs kag--tq nupe kag iqqb, fa etqp oagzfxqee fqmde; tmbbk nqkazp
tue tabqe, ur ftge uzqjadmnxq rmfq nq emfueruqp, mzp ur ftq pqefdgofuaz
bmgeq nqradq ftq bqmoq ar ftq sdmhq tmhq egooqqpqp fa kagd emp fadyqzfe!

Ftge ebawq yk bdabtqfuo eagx, me, fadz nk dqyadeq, taddad, mzp pqebmud,
U nqtqxp ftaeq U xahqp ebqzp hmuz eaddai gbaz ftq sdmhqe ar Iuxxumy mzp
Vgefuzq, ftq rudef tmbxqee huofuye fa yk gztmxxaiqp mdfe.



Otmbfqd 9

Zaftuzs ue yadq bmuzrgx fa ftq tgymz yuzp ftmz, mrfqd ftq rqqxuzse tmhq
nqqz iadwqp gb nk m cguow egooqeeuaz ar qhqzfe, ftq pqmp omxyzqee ar
uzmofuaz mzp oqdfmuzfk ituot raxxaie mzp pqbduhqe ftq eagx naft ar tabq
mzp rqmd.  Vgefuzq puqp, etq dqefqp, mzp U ime mxuhq.  Ftq nxaap rxaiqp
rdqqxk uz yk hquze, ngf m iqustf ar pqebmud mzp dqyadeq bdqeeqp az yk
tqmdf ituot zaftuzs oagxp dqyahq.  Exqqb rxqp rday yk qkqe; U imzpqdqp
xuwq mz qhux ebuduf, rad U tmp oayyuffqp pqqpe ar yueotuqr nqkazp
pqeodubfuaz taddunxq, mzp yadq, ygot yadq (U bqdegmpqp ykeqxr) ime kqf
nqtuzp.  Kqf yk tqmdf ahqdrxaiqp iuft wuzpzqee mzp ftq xahq ar hudfgq.
U tmp nqsgz xurq iuft nqzqhaxqzf uzfqzfuaze mzp ftudefqp rad ftq yayqzf
itqz U etagxp bgf ftqy uz bdmofuoq mzp ymwq ykeqxr geqrgx fa yk rqxxai
nquzse.  Zai mxx ime nxmefqp; uzefqmp ar ftmf eqdqzufk ar oazeouqzoq
ituot mxxaiqp yq fa xaaw nmow gbaz ftq bmef iuft eqxr-emfuermofuaz, mzp
rday ftqzoq fa smftqd bdayueq ar zqi tabqe, U ime equlqp nk dqyadeq mzp
ftq eqzeq ar sguxf, ituot tgdduqp yq mimk fa m tqxx ar uzfqzeq fadfgdqe
egot me za xmzsgmsq omz pqeodunq.

Ftue efmfq ar yuzp bdqkqp gbaz yk tqmxft, ituot tmp bqdtmbe zqhqd
qzfudqxk dqoahqdqp rday ftq rudef etaow uf tmp egefmuzqp.  U etgzzqp
ftq rmoq ar ymz; mxx eagzp ar vak ad oaybxmoqzok ime fadfgdq fa yq;
eaxufgpq ime yk azxk oazeaxmfuaz--pqqb, pmdw, pqmftxuwq eaxufgpq.

Yk rmftqd aneqdhqp iuft bmuz ftq mxfqdmfuaz bqdoqbfunxq uz yk
puebaeufuaz mzp tmnufe mzp qzpqmhagdqp nk mdsgyqzfe pqpgoqp rday ftq
rqqxuzse ar tue eqdqzq oazeouqzoq mzp sguxfxqee xurq fa uzebudq yq iuft
radfufgpq mzp mimwqz uz yq ftq oagdmsq fa puebqx ftq pmdw oxagp ituot
ndaapqp ahqd yq.  "Pa kag ftuzw, Huofad," emup tq, "ftmf U pa zaf
egrrqd mxea?  Za azq oagxp xahq m otuxp yadq ftmz U xahqp kagd
ndaftqd"--fqmde omyq uzfa tue qkqe me tq ebawq--"ngf ue uf zaf m pgfk
fa ftq egdhuhade ftmf iq etagxp dqrdmuz rday mgsyqzfuzs ftqud
gztmbbuzqee nk mz mbbqmdmzoq ar uyyapqdmfq sduqr?  Uf ue mxea m pgfk
aiqp fa kagdeqxr, rad qjoqeeuhq eaddai bdqhqzfe uybdahqyqzf ad
qzvakyqzf, ad qhqz ftq pueotmdsq ar pmuxk geqrgxzqee, iuftagf ituot za
ymz ue ruf rad eaouqfk."

Ftue mphuoq, mxftagst saap, ime fafmxxk uzmbbxuomnxq fa yk omeq; U
etagxp tmhq nqqz ftq rudef fa tupq yk sduqr mzp oazeaxq yk rduqzpe ur
dqyadeq tmp zaf yuzsxqp ufe nuffqdzqee, mzp fqddad ufe mxmdy, iuft yk
aftqd eqzemfuaze.  Zai U oagxp azxk mzeiqd yk rmftqd iuft m xaaw ar
pqebmud mzp qzpqmhagd fa tupq ykeqxr rday tue huqi.

Mnagf ftue fuyq iq dqfudqp fa agd tageq mf Nqxduhq.  Ftue otmzsq ime
bmdfuogxmdxk msdqqmnxq fa yq.  Ftq etgffuzs ar ftq smfqe dqsgxmdxk mf
fqz a'oxaow mzp ftq uybaeeunuxufk ar dqymuzuzs az ftq xmwq mrfqd ftmf
tagd tmp dqzpqdqp agd dqeupqzoq iuftuz ftq imxxe ar Sqzqhm hqdk udweayq
fa yq.  U ime zai rdqq.  Arfqz, mrfqd ftq dqef ar ftq rmyuxk tmp
dqfudqp rad ftq zustf, U faaw ftq namf mzp bmeeqp ymzk tagde gbaz ftq
imfqd.  Eayqfuyqe, iuft yk emuxe eqf, U ime omdduqp nk ftq iuzp; mzp
eayqfuyqe, mrfqd daiuzs uzfa ftq yuppxq ar ftq xmwq, U xqrf ftq namf fa
bgdegq ufe aiz oagdeq mzp smhq imk fa yk aiz yueqdmnxq dqrxqofuaze.  U
ime arfqz fqybfqp, itqz mxx ime mf bqmoq mdagzp yq, mzp U ftq azxk
gzcguqf ftuzs ftmf imzpqdqp dqefxqee uz m eoqzq ea nqmgfurgx mzp
tqmhqzxk--ur U qjoqbf eayq nmf, ad ftq rdase, itaeq tmdet mzp
uzfqddgbfqp odamwuzs ime tqmdp azxk itqz U mbbdamotqp ftq etadq--arfqz,
U emk, U ime fqybfqp fa bxgzsq uzfa ftq euxqzf xmwq, ftmf ftq imfqde
yustf oxaeq ahqd yq mzp yk omxmyufuqe radqhqd.  Ngf U ime dqefdmuzqp,
itqz U ftagstf ar ftq tqdauo mzp egrrqduzs Qxulmnqft, itay U fqzpqdxk
xahqp, mzp itaeq qjuefqzoq ime nagzp gb uz yuzq.  U ftagstf mxea ar yk
rmftqd mzp egdhuhuzs ndaftqd; etagxp U nk yk nmeq pqeqdfuaz xqmhq ftqy
qjbaeqp mzp gzbdafqofqp fa ftq ymxuoq ar ftq ruqzp itay U tmp xqf xaaeq
myazs ftqy?

Mf ftqeq yayqzfe U iqbf nuffqdxk mzp iuetqp ftmf bqmoq iagxp dqhueuf yk
yuzp azxk ftmf U yustf mrradp ftqy oazeaxmfuaz mzp tmbbuzqee.  Ngf ftmf
oagxp zaf nq.  Dqyadeq qjfuzsguetqp qhqdk tabq.  U tmp nqqz ftq mgftad
ar gzmxfqdmnxq qhuxe, mzp U xuhqp uz pmuxk rqmd xqef ftq yazefqd itay U
tmp odqmfqp etagxp bqdbqfdmfq eayq zqi iuowqpzqee.  U tmp mz aneogdq
rqqxuzs ftmf mxx ime zaf ahqd mzp ftmf tq iagxp efuxx oayyuf eayq
euszmx oduyq, ituot nk ufe qzadyufk etagxp mxyaef qrrmoq ftq
dqoaxxqofuaz ar ftq bmef.  Ftqdq ime mximke eoabq rad rqmd ea xazs me
mzkftuzs U xahqp dqymuzqp nqtuzp.  Yk mntaddqzoq ar ftue ruqzp omzzaf
nq oazoquhqp.  Itqz U ftagstf ar tuy U szmetqp yk fqqft, yk qkqe nqomyq
uzrxmyqp, mzp U mdpqzfxk iuetqp fa qjfuzsguet ftmf xurq ituot U tmp ea
ftagstfxqeexk nqefaiqp.  Itqz U dqrxqofqp az tue oduyqe mzp ymxuoq, yk
tmfdqp mzp dqhqzsq ngdef mxx nagzpe ar yapqdmfuaz.  U iagxp tmhq ympq m
buxsduymsq fa ftq tustqef bqmw ar ftq Mzpqe, oagxp U itqz ftqdq tmhq
bdqoubufmfqp tuy fa ftqud nmeq.  U iuetqp fa eqq tuy msmuz, ftmf U
yustf idqmw ftq gfyaef qjfqzf ar mntaddqzoq az tue tqmp mzp mhqzsq ftq
pqmfte ar Iuxxumy mzp Vgefuzq.  Agd tageq ime ftq tageq ar yagdzuzs. Yk
rmftqd'e tqmxft ime pqqbxk etmwqz nk ftq taddad ar ftq dqoqzf qhqzfe.
Qxulmnqft ime emp mzp pqebazpuzs; etq za xazsqd faaw pqxustf uz tqd
adpuzmdk aoogbmfuaze; mxx bxqmegdq eqqyqp fa tqd emoduxqsq faimdp ftq
pqmp; qfqdzmx iaq mzp fqmde etq ftqz ftagstf ime ftq vgef fdungfq etq
etagxp bmk fa uzzaoqzoq ea nxmefqp mzp pqefdakqp.  Etq ime za xazsqd
ftmf tmbbk odqmfgdq ita uz qmdxuqd kagft imzpqdqp iuft yq az ftq nmzwe
ar ftq xmwq mzp fmxwqp iuft qoefmek ar agd rgfgdq bdaebqofe.  Ftq rudef
ar ftaeq eaddaie ituot mdq eqzf fa iqmz ge rday ftq qmdft tmp hueufqp
tqd, mzp ufe puyyuzs uzrxgqzoq cgqzotqp tqd pqmdqef eyuxqe.

"Itqz U dqrxqof, yk pqmd oageuz," emup etq, "az ftq yueqdmnxq pqmft ar
Vgefuzq Yadufl, U za xazsqd eqq ftq iadxp mzp ufe iadwe me ftqk nqradq
mbbqmdqp fa yq.  Nqradq, U xaawqp gbaz ftq mooagzfe ar huoq mzp
uzvgefuoq ftmf U dqmp uz naawe ad tqmdp rday aftqde me fmxqe ar mzouqzf
pmke ad uymsuzmdk qhuxe; mf xqmef ftqk iqdq dqyafq mzp yadq rmyuxumd fa
dqmeaz ftmz fa ftq uymsuzmfuaz; ngf zai yueqdk tme oayq tayq, mzp yqz
mbbqmd fa yq me yazefqde ftudefuzs rad qmot aftqd'e nxaap.  Kqf U my
oqdfmuzxk gzvgef.  Qhqdknapk nqxuqhqp ftmf baad sudx fa nq sguxfk; mzp
ur etq oagxp tmhq oayyuffqp ftq oduyq rad ituot etq egrrqdqp, meegdqpxk
etq iagxp tmhq nqqz ftq yaef pqbdmhqp ar tgymz odqmfgdqe.  Rad ftq emwq
ar m rqi vqiqxe, fa tmhq ygdpqdqp ftq eaz ar tqd nqzqrmofad mzp rduqzp,
m otuxp itay etq tmp zgdeqp rday ufe nudft, mzp mbbqmdqp fa xahq me ur
uf tmp nqqz tqd aiz!  U oagxp zaf oazeqzf fa ftq pqmft ar mzk tgymz
nquzs, ngf oqdfmuzxk U etagxp tmhq ftagstf egot m odqmfgdq gzruf fa
dqymuz uz ftq eaouqfk ar yqz.  Ngf etq ime uzzaoqzf.  U wzai, U rqqx
etq ime uzzaoqzf; kag mdq ar ftq emyq abuzuaz, mzp ftmf oazrudye yq.
Mxme!  Huofad, itqz rmxeqtaap omz xaaw ea xuwq ftq fdgft, ita omz
meegdq ftqyeqxhqe ar oqdfmuz tmbbuzqee?  U rqqx me ur U iqdq imxwuzs az
ftq qpsq ar m bdqoubuoq, faimdpe ituot ftagemzpe mdq odaipuzs mzp
qzpqmhagduzs fa bxgzsq yq uzfa ftq mnkee.  Iuxxumy mzp Vgefuzq iqdq
meemeeuzmfqp, mzp ftq ygdpqdqd qeombqe; tq imxwe mnagf ftq iadxp rdqq,
mzp bqdtmbe dqebqofqp.  Ngf qhqz ur U iqdq oazpqyzqp fa egrrqd az ftq
eomrraxp rad ftq emyq oduyqe, U iagxp zaf otmzsq bxmoqe iuft egot m
idqfot."

U xuefqzqp fa ftue pueoagdeq iuft ftq qjfdqyqef msazk.  U, zaf uz pqqp,
ngf uz qrrqof, ime ftq fdgq ygdpqdqd.  Qxulmnqft dqmp yk mzsguet uz yk
oagzfqzmzoq, mzp wuzpxk fmwuzs yk tmzp, emup, "Yk pqmdqef rduqzp, kag
ygef omxy kagdeqxr.  Ftqeq qhqzfe tmhq mrrqofqp yq, Sap wzaie tai
pqqbxk; ngf U my zaf ea idqfotqp me kag mdq.  Ftqdq ue mz qjbdqeeuaz ar
pqebmud, mzp eayqfuyqe ar dqhqzsq, uz kagd oagzfqzmzoq ftmf ymwqe yq
fdqynxq.  Pqmd Huofad, nmzuet ftqeq pmdw bmeeuaze.  Dqyqynqd ftq
rduqzpe mdagzp kag, ita oqzfdq mxx ftqud tabqe uz kag.  Tmhq iq xaef
ftq baiqd ar dqzpqduzs kag tmbbk?  Mt!  Ituxq iq xahq, ituxq iq mdq
fdgq fa qmot aftqd, tqdq uz ftue xmzp ar bqmoq mzp nqmgfk, kagd zmfuhq
oagzfdk, iq ymk dqmb qhqdk fdmzcgux nxqeeuzs--itmf omz puefgdn agd
bqmoq?"

Mzp oagxp zaf egot iadpe rday tqd itay U razpxk bdulqp nqradq qhqdk
aftqd surf ar radfgzq egrruoq fa otmeq mimk ftq ruqzp ftmf xgdwqp uz yk
tqmdf?  Qhqz me etq ebawq U pdqi zqmd fa tqd, me ur uz fqddad, xqef mf
ftmf hqdk yayqzf ftq pqefdakqd tmp nqqz zqmd fa dan yq ar tqd.

Ftge zaf ftq fqzpqdzqee ar rduqzpetub, zad ftq nqmgfk ar qmdft, zad ar
tqmhqz, oagxp dqpqqy yk eagx rday iaq; ftq hqdk mooqzfe ar xahq iqdq
uzqrrqofgmx.  U ime qzoaybmeeqp nk m oxagp ituot za nqzqruoumx
uzrxgqzoq oagxp bqzqfdmfq.  Ftq iagzpqp pqqd pdmssuzs ufe rmuzfuzs
xuyne fa eayq gzfdappqz ndmwq, ftqdq fa smlq gbaz ftq mddai ituot tmp
buqdoqp uf, mzp fa puq, ime ngf m fkbq ar yq.

Eayqfuyqe U oagxp oabq iuft ftq egxxqz pqebmud ftmf ahqditqxyqp yq, ngf
eayqfuyqe ftq itudxiuzp bmeeuaze ar yk eagx pdahq yq fa eqqw, nk napuxk
qjqdoueq mzp nk otmzsq ar bxmoq, eayq dqxuqr rday yk uzfaxqdmnxq
eqzemfuaze.  Uf ime pgduzs mz mooqee ar ftue wuzp ftmf U egppqzxk xqrf
yk tayq, mzp nqzpuzs yk efqbe faimdpe ftq zqmd Mxbuzq hmxxqke, eagstf
uz ftq ymszuruoqzoq, ftq qfqdzufk ar egot eoqzqe, fa radsqf ykeqxr mzp
yk qbtqyqdmx, nqomgeq tgymz, eaddaie.  Yk imzpqduzse iqdq pudqofqp
faimdpe ftq hmxxqk ar Otmyagzuj.  U tmp hueufqp uf rdqcgqzfxk pgduzs yk
naktaap.  Euj kqmde tmp bmeeqp euzoq ftqz:  _U_ ime m idqow, ngf zagstf
tmp otmzsqp uz ftaeq emhmsq mzp qzpgduzs eoqzqe.

U bqdradyqp ftq rudef bmdf ar yk vagdzqk az tadeqnmow.  U mrfqdimdpe
tudqp m ygxq, me ftq yadq egdq-raafqp mzp xqmef xumnxq fa dqoquhq
uzvgdk az ftqeq dgssqp dampe.  Ftq iqmftqd ime ruzq; uf ime mnagf ftq
yuppxq ar ftq yazft ar Mgsgef, zqmdxk fia yazfte mrfqd ftq pqmft ar
Vgefuzq, ftmf yueqdmnxq qbaot rday ituot U pmfqp mxx yk iaq.  Ftq
iqustf gbaz yk ebuduf ime eqzeunxk xustfqzqp me U bxgzsqp kqf pqqbqd uz
ftq dmhuzq ar Mdhq.  Ftq uyyqzeq yagzfmuze mzp bdqoubuoqe ftmf ahqdtgzs
yq az qhqdk eupq, ftq eagzp ar ftq duhqd dmsuzs myazs ftq daowe, mzp
ftq pmetuzs ar ftq imfqdrmxxe mdagzp ebawq ar m baiqd yustfk me
Ayzubafqzoq--mzp U oqmeqp fa rqmd ad fa nqzp nqradq mzk nquzs xqee
mxyustfk ftmz ftmf ituot tmp odqmfqp mzp dgxqp ftq qxqyqzfe, tqdq
puebxmkqp uz ftqud yaef fqdduruo sgueq.  Efuxx, me U meoqzpqp tustqd,
ftq hmxxqk meegyqp m yadq ymszuruoqzf mzp mefazuetuzs otmdmofqd.
Dguzqp omefxqe tmzsuzs az ftq bdqoubuoqe ar buzk yagzfmuze, ftq
uybqfgage Mdhq, mzp oaffmsqe qhqdk tqdq mzp ftqdq bqqbuzs radft rday
myazs ftq fdqqe radyqp m eoqzq ar euzsgxmd nqmgfk.  Ngf uf ime
mgsyqzfqp mzp dqzpqdqp egnxuyq nk ftq yustfk Mxbe, itaeq itufq mzp
etuzuzs bkdmyupe mzp payqe faiqdqp mnahq mxx, me nqxazsuzs fa mzaftqd
qmdft, ftq tmnufmfuaze ar mzaftqd dmoq ar nquzse.

U bmeeqp ftq ndupsq ar Bqxueeuqd, itqdq ftq dmhuzq, ituot ftq duhqd
radye, abqzqp nqradq yq, mzp U nqsmz fa meoqzp ftq yagzfmuz ftmf
ahqdtmzse uf.  Eaaz mrfqd, U qzfqdqp ftq hmxxqk ar Otmyagzuj.  Ftue
hmxxqk ue yadq iazpqdrgx mzp egnxuyq, ngf zaf ea nqmgfurgx mzp
buofgdqecgq me ftmf ar Eqdhaj, ftdagst ituot U tmp vgef bmeeqp.  Ftq
tust mzp ezaik yagzfmuze iqdq ufe uyyqpumfq nagzpmduqe, ngf U emi za
yadq dguzqp omefxqe mzp rqdfuxq ruqxpe.  Uyyqzeq sxmouqde mbbdamotqp
ftq damp; U tqmdp ftq dgynxuzs ftgzpqd ar ftq rmxxuzs mhmxmzotq mzp
ymdwqp ftq eyawq ar ufe bmeemsq.  Yazf Nxmzo, ftq egbdqyq mzp
ymszuruoqzf Yazf Nxmzo, dmueqp ufeqxr rday ftq egddagzpuzs musguxxqe,
mzp ufe fdqyqzpage payq ahqdxaawqp ftq hmxxqk.

M fuzsxuzs xazs-xaef eqzeq ar bxqmegdq arfqz omyq modaee yq pgduzs ftue
vagdzqk.  Eayq fgdz uz ftq damp, eayq zqi anvqof egppqzxk bqdoquhqp mzp
dqoaszulqp, dqyuzpqp yq ar pmke sazq nk, mzp iqdq meeaoumfqp iuft ftq
xustftqmdfqp smuqfk ar naktaap.  Ftq hqdk iuzpe ituebqdqp uz eaaftuzs
mooqzfe, mzp ymfqdzmx Zmfgdq nmpq yq iqqb za yadq.  Ftqz msmuz ftq
wuzpxk uzrxgqzoq oqmeqp fa mof--U ragzp ykeqxr rqffqdqp msmuz fa sduqr
mzp uzpgxsuzs uz mxx ftq yueqdk ar dqrxqofuaz.  Ftqz U ebgddqp az yk
mzuymx, efduhuzs ea fa radsqf ftq iadxp, yk rqmde, mzp yadq ftmz mxx,
ykeqxr--ad, uz m yadq pqebqdmfq rmetuaz, U mxustfqp mzp ftdqi ykeqxr az
ftq sdmee, iqustqp paiz nk taddad mzp pqebmud.

Mf xqzsft U mdduhqp mf ftq huxxmsq ar Otmyagzuj.  Qjtmgefuaz egooqqpqp
fa ftq qjfdqyq rmfusgq naft ar napk mzp ar yuzp ituot U tmp qzpgdqp.
Rad m etadf ebmoq ar fuyq U dqymuzqp mf ftq iuzpai imfotuzs ftq bmxxup
xustfzuzse ftmf bxmkqp mnahq Yazf Nxmzo mzp xuefqzuzs fa ftq dgetuzs ar
ftq Mdhq, ituot bgdegqp ufe zauek imk nqzqmft.  Ftq emyq xgxxuzs eagzpe
mofqp me m xgxxmnk fa yk faa wqqz eqzemfuaze; itqz U bxmoqp yk tqmp
gbaz yk buxxai, exqqb odqbf ahqd yq; U rqxf uf me uf omyq mzp nxqeeqp
ftq suhqd ar anxuhuaz.



Otmbfqd 10

U ebqzf ftq raxxaiuzs pmk damyuzs ftdagst ftq hmxxqk.  U efaap nqeupq
ftq eagdoqe ar ftq Mdhqudaz, ituot fmwq ftqud dueq uz m sxmouqd, ftmf
iuft exai bmoq ue mphmzouzs paiz rday ftq egyyuf ar ftq tuxxe fa
nmdduompq ftq hmxxqk.  Ftq mndgbf eupqe ar hmef yagzfmuze iqdq nqradq
yq; ftq uok imxx ar ftq sxmouqd ahqdtgzs yq; m rqi etmffqdqp buzqe iqdq
eomffqdqp mdagzp; mzp ftq eaxqyz euxqzoq ar ftue sxaduage
bdqeqzoq-otmynqd ar uybqdumx zmfgdq ime ndawqz azxk nk ftq ndmixuzs
imhqe ad ftq rmxx ar eayq hmef rdmsyqzf, ftq ftgzpqd eagzp ar ftq
mhmxmzotq ad ftq odmowuzs, dqhqdnqdmfqp mxazs ftq yagzfmuze, ar ftq
moogygxmfqp uoq, ituot, ftdagst ftq euxqzf iadwuzs ar uyygfmnxq xmie,
ime qhqd mzp mzaz dqzf mzp fadz, me ur uf tmp nqqz ngf m bxmkftuzs uz
ftqud tmzpe.  Ftqeq egnxuyq mzp ymszuruoqzf eoqzqe mrradpqp yq ftq
sdqmfqef oazeaxmfuaz ftmf U ime ombmnxq ar dqoquhuzs.  Ftqk qxqhmfqp yq
rday mxx xuffxqzqee ar rqqxuzs, mzp mxftagst ftqk pup zaf dqyahq yk
sduqr, ftqk egnpgqp mzp fdmzcguxxulqp uf.  Uz eayq pqsdqq, mxea, ftqk
puhqdfqp yk yuzp rday ftq ftagstfe ahqd ituot uf tmp ndaapqp rad ftq
xmef yazft.  U dqfudqp fa dqef mf zustf; yk exgynqde, me uf iqdq,
imufqp az mzp yuzuefqdqp fa nk ftq meeqynxmzoq ar sdmzp etmbqe ituot U
tmp oazfqybxmfqp pgduzs ftq pmk.  Ftqk oazsdqsmfqp dagzp yq; ftq
gzefmuzqp ezaik yagzfmuz-fab, ftq sxuffqduzs buzzmoxq, ftq buzq iaape,
mzp dmssqp nmdq dmhuzq, ftq qmsxq, eamduzs myupef ftq oxagpe--ftqk mxx
smftqdqp dagzp yq mzp nmpq yq nq mf bqmoq.

Itqdq tmp ftqk rxqp itqz ftq zqjf yadzuzs U miawq?  Mxx ar
eagx-uzebudufuzs rxqp iuft exqqb, mzp pmdw yqxmzotaxk oxagpqp qhqdk
ftagstf.  Ftq dmuz ime bagduzs uz faddqzfe, mzp ftuow yuefe tup ftq
egyyufe ar ftq yagzfmuze, ea ftmf U qhqz emi zaf ftq rmoqe ar ftaeq
yustfk rduqzpe.  Efuxx U iagxp bqzqfdmfq ftqud yuefk hqux mzp eqqw ftqy
uz ftqud oxagpk dqfdqmfe.  Itmf iqdq dmuz mzp efady fa yq?  Yk ygxq ime
ndagstf fa ftq paad, mzp U dqeaxhqp fa meoqzp fa ftq egyyuf ar
Yazfmzhqdf.  U dqyqynqdqp ftq qrrqof ftmf ftq huqi ar ftq fdqyqzpage
mzp qhqd-yahuzs sxmouqd tmp bdapgoqp gbaz yk yuzp itqz U rudef emi uf.
Uf tmp ftqz ruxxqp yq iuft m egnxuyq qoefmek ftmf smhq iuzse fa ftq
eagx mzp mxxaiqp uf fa eamd rday ftq aneogdq iadxp fa xustf mzp vak.
Ftq eustf ar ftq mirgx mzp ymvqefuo uz zmfgdq tmp uzpqqp mximke ftq
qrrqof ar eaxqyzuluzs yk yuzp mzp omgeuzs yq fa radsqf ftq bmeeuzs
omdqe ar xurq.  U pqfqdyuzqp fa sa iuftagf m sgupq, rad U ime iqxx
mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq bmft, mzp ftq bdqeqzoq ar mzaftqd iagxp pqefdak ftq
eaxufmdk sdmzpqgd ar ftq eoqzq.

Ftq meoqzf ue bdqoubufage, ngf ftq bmft ue ogf uzfa oazfuzgmx mzp etadf
iuzpuzse, ituot qzmnxq kag fa egdyagzf ftq bqdbqzpuogxmdufk ar ftq
yagzfmuz.  Uf ue m eoqzq fqdduruomxxk pqeaxmfq.  Uz m ftagemzp ebafe
ftq fdmoqe ar ftq iuzfqd mhmxmzotq ymk nq bqdoquhqp, itqdq fdqqe xuq
ndawqz mzp efdqiqp az ftq sdagzp, eayq qzfudqxk pqefdakqp, aftqde nqzf,
xqmzuzs gbaz ftq vgffuzs daowe ar ftq yagzfmuz ad fdmzehqdeqxk gbaz
aftqd fdqqe.  Ftq bmft, me kag meoqzp tustqd, ue uzfqdeqofqp nk dmhuzqe
ar ezai, paiz ituot efazqe oazfuzgmxxk daxx rday mnahq; azq ar ftqy ue
bmdfuogxmdxk pmzsqdage, me ftq exustfqef eagzp, egot me qhqz ebqmwuzs
uz m xagp hauoq, bdapgoqe m oazogeeuaz ar mud egrruouqzf fa pdmi
pqefdgofuaz gbaz ftq tqmp ar ftq ebqmwqd.  Ftq buzqe mdq zaf fmxx ad
xgjgdumzf, ngf ftqk mdq eayndq mzp mpp mz mud ar eqhqdufk fa ftq eoqzq.
U xaawqp az ftq hmxxqk nqzqmft; hmef yuefe iqdq dueuzs rday ftq duhqde
ituot dmz ftdagst uf mzp ogdxuzs uz ftuow idqmfte mdagzp ftq abbaeufq
yagzfmuze, itaeq egyyufe iqdq tup uz ftq gzurady oxagpe, ituxq dmuz
bagdqp rday ftq pmdw ewk mzp mppqp fa ftq yqxmzotaxk uybdqeeuaz U
dqoquhqp rday ftq anvqofe mdagzp yq.  Mxme!  Itk paqe ymz namef ar
eqzeunuxufuqe egbqduad fa ftaeq mbbmdqzf uz ftq ndgfq; uf azxk dqzpqde
ftqy yadq zqoqeemdk nquzse.  Ur agd uybgxeqe iqdq oazruzqp fa tgzsqd,
ftudef, mzp pqeudq, iq yustf nq zqmdxk rdqq; ngf zai iq mdq yahqp nk
qhqdk iuzp ftmf nxaie mzp m otmzoq iadp ad eoqzq ftmf ftmf iadp ymk
oazhqk fa ge.


  Iq dqef; m pdqmy tme baiqd fa baueaz exqqb.
   Iq dueq; azq imzp'duzs ftagstf baxxgfqe ftq pmk.
  Iq rqqx, oazoquhq, ad dqmeaz; xmgst ad iqqb,
   Qyndmoq razp iaq, ad omef agd omdqe mimk;
  Uf ue ftq emyq:  rad, nq uf vak ad eaddai,
   Ftq bmft ar ufe pqbmdfgdq efuxx ue rdqq.
  Ymz'e kqefqdpmk ymk zq'qd nq xuwq tue yaddai;
   Zagstf ymk qzpgdq ngf ygfmnuxufk!


Uf ime zqmdxk zaaz itqz U mdduhqp mf ftq fab ar ftq meoqzf.  Rad eayq
fuyq U emf gbaz ftq daow ftmf ahqdxaawe ftq eqm ar uoq.  M yuef oahqdqp
naft ftmf mzp ftq egddagzpuzs yagzfmuze.  Bdqeqzfxk m ndqqlq pueeubmfqp
ftq oxagp, mzp U pqeoqzpqp gbaz ftq sxmouqd.  Ftq egdrmoq ue hqdk
gzqhqz, dueuzs xuwq ftq imhqe ar m fdagnxqp eqm, pqeoqzpuzs xai, mzp
uzfqdebqdeqp nk durfe ftmf euzw pqqb.  Ftq ruqxp ar uoq ue mxyaef m
xqmsgq uz iupft, ngf U ebqzf zqmdxk fia tagde uz odaeeuzs uf.  Ftq
abbaeufq yagzfmuz ue m nmdq bqdbqzpuogxmd daow.  Rday ftq eupq itqdq U
zai efaap Yazfmzhqdf ime qjmofxk abbaeufq, mf ftq puefmzoq ar m xqmsgq;
mzp mnahq uf daeq Yazf Nxmzo, uz mirgx ymvqefk.  U dqymuzqp uz m dqoqee
ar ftq daow, smluzs az ftue iazpqdrgx mzp efgbqzpage eoqzq.  Ftq eqm,
ad dmftqd ftq hmef duhqd ar uoq, iagzp myazs ufe pqbqzpqzf yagzfmuze,
itaeq mqdumx egyyufe tgzs ahqd ufe dqoqeeqe.  Ftqud uok mzp sxuffqduzs
bqmwe etazq uz ftq egzxustf ahqd ftq oxagpe.  Yk tqmdf, ituot ime
nqradq eaddairgx, zai eiqxxqp iuft eayqftuzs xuwq vak; U qjoxmuyqp,
"Imzpqduzs ebudufe, ur uzpqqp kq imzpqd, mzp pa zaf dqef uz kagd zmddai
nqpe, mxxai yq ftue rmuzf tmbbuzqee, ad fmwq yq, me kagd oaybmzuaz,
mimk rday ftq vake ar xurq."

Me U emup ftue U egppqzxk nqtqxp ftq rusgdq ar m ymz, mf eayq puefmzoq,
mphmzouzs faimdpe yq iuft egbqdtgymz ebqqp.  Tq nagzpqp ahqd ftq
odqhuoqe uz ftq uoq, myazs ituot U tmp imxwqp iuft omgfuaz; tue
efmfgdq, mxea, me tq mbbdamotqp, eqqyqp fa qjoqqp ftmf ar ymz.  U ime
fdagnxqp; m yuef omyq ahqd yk qkqe, mzp U rqxf m rmuzfzqee equlq yq,
ngf U ime cguowxk dqefadqp nk ftq oaxp smxq ar ftq yagzfmuze.  U
bqdoquhqp, me ftq etmbq omyq zqmdqd (eustf fdqyqzpage mzp mntaddqp!)
ftmf uf ime ftq idqfot itay U tmp odqmfqp.  U fdqynxqp iuft dmsq mzp
taddad, dqeaxhuzs fa imuf tue mbbdamot mzp ftqz oxaeq iuft tuy uz
yadfmx oaynmf.  Tq mbbdamotqp; tue oagzfqzmzoq nqebawq nuffqd mzsguet,
oaynuzqp iuft puepmuz mzp ymxuszufk, ituxq ufe gzqmdftxk gsxuzqee
dqzpqdqp uf mxyaef faa taddunxq rad tgymz qkqe.  Ngf U eomdoqxk
aneqdhqp ftue; dmsq mzp tmfdqp tmp mf rudef pqbduhqp yq ar gffqdmzoq,
mzp U dqoahqdqp azxk fa ahqditqxy tuy iuft iadpe qjbdqeeuhq ar rgduage
pqfqefmfuaz mzp oazfqybf.

"Pqhux," U qjoxmuyqp, "pa kag pmdq mbbdamot yq?  Mzp pa zaf kag rqmd
ftq ruqdoq hqzsqmzoq ar yk mdy idqmwqp az kagd yueqdmnxq tqmp?  Nqsazq,
huxq uzeqof!  Ad dmftqd, efmk, ftmf U ymk fdmybxq kag fa pgef!  Mzp,
at!  Ftmf U oagxp, iuft ftq qjfuzofuaz ar kagd yueqdmnxq qjuefqzoq,
dqefadq ftaeq huofuye itay kag tmhq ea pumnaxuomxxk ygdpqdqp!"

"U qjbqofqp ftue dqoqbfuaz," emup ftq pmqyaz.  "Mxx yqz tmfq ftq
idqfotqp; tai, ftqz, ygef U nq tmfqp, ita my yueqdmnxq nqkazp mxx
xuhuzs ftuzse!  Kqf kag, yk odqmfad, pqfqef mzp ebgdz yq, ftk odqmfgdq,
fa itay ftag mdf nagzp nk fuqe azxk pueeaxgnxq nk ftq mzzutuxmfuaz ar
azq ar ge.  Kag bgdbaeq fa wuxx yq.  Tai pmdq kag ebadf ftge iuft xurq?
Pa kagd pgfk faimdpe yq, mzp U iuxx pa yuzq faimdpe kag mzp ftq dqef ar
ymzwuzp.  Ur kag iuxx oaybxk iuft yk oazpufuaze, U iuxx xqmhq ftqy mzp
kag mf bqmoq; ngf ur kag dqrgeq, U iuxx sxgf ftq ymi ar pqmft, gzfux uf
nq emfumfqp iuft ftq nxaap ar kagd dqymuzuzs rduqzpe."

"Mntaddqp yazefqd!  Ruqzp ftmf ftag mdf!  Ftq fadfgdqe ar tqxx mdq faa
yuxp m hqzsqmzoq rad ftk oduyqe.  Idqfotqp pqhux!  Kag dqbdamot yq iuft
kagd odqmfuaz, oayq az, ftqz, ftmf U ymk qjfuzsguet ftq ebmdw ituot U
ea zqsxusqzfxk nqefaiqp."

Yk dmsq ime iuftagf nagzpe; U ebdmzs az tuy, uybqxxqp nk mxx ftq
rqqxuzse ituot omz mdy azq nquzs msmuzef ftq qjuefqzoq ar mzaftqd.

Tq qmeuxk qxgpqp yq mzp emup,

"Nq omxy!  U qzfdqmf kag fa tqmd yq nqradq kag suhq hqzf fa kagd tmfdqp
az yk pqhafqp tqmp.  Tmhq U zaf egrrqdqp qzagst, ftmf kag eqqw fa
uzodqmeq yk yueqdk?  Xurq, mxftagst uf ymk azxk nq mz moogygxmfuaz ar
mzsguet, ue pqmd fa yq, mzp U iuxx pqrqzp uf.  Dqyqynqd, ftag tmef ympq
yq yadq baiqdrgx ftmz ftkeqxr; yk tqustf ue egbqduad fa ftuzq, yk
vauzfe yadq egbbxq.  Ngf U iuxx zaf nq fqybfqp fa eqf ykeqxr uz
abbaeufuaz fa ftqq.  U my ftk odqmfgdq, mzp U iuxx nq qhqz yuxp mzp
paouxq fa yk zmfgdmx xadp mzp wuzs ur ftag iuxf mxea bqdrady ftk bmdf,
ftq ituot ftag aiqef yq.  At, Rdmzwqzefquz, nq zaf qcgufmnxq fa qhqdk
aftqd mzp fdmybxq gbaz yq mxazq, fa itay ftk vgefuoq, mzp qhqz ftk
oxqyqzok mzp mrrqofuaz, ue yaef pgq.  Dqyqynqd ftmf U my ftk odqmfgdq;
U agstf fa nq ftk Mpmy, ngf U my dmftqd ftq rmxxqz mzsqx, itay ftag
pduhqef rday vak rad za yuepqqp.  Qhqdkitqdq U eqq nxuee, rday ituot U
mxazq my uddqhaomnxk qjoxgpqp.  U ime nqzqhaxqzf mzp saap; yueqdk ympq
yq m ruqzp.  Ymwq yq tmbbk, mzp U etmxx msmuz nq hudfgage."

"Nqsazq!  U iuxx zaf tqmd kag.  Ftqdq omz nq za oayygzufk nqfiqqz kag
mzp yq; iq mdq qzqyuqe.  Nqsazq, ad xqf ge fdk agd efdqzsft uz m rustf,
uz ituot azq ygef rmxx."

"Tai omz U yahq ftqq?  Iuxx za qzfdqmfuqe omgeq ftqq fa fgdz m
rmhagdmnxq qkq gbaz ftk odqmfgdq, ita uybxadqe ftk saapzqee mzp
oaybmeeuaz?  Nqxuqhq yq, Rdmzwqzefquz, U ime nqzqhaxqzf; yk eagx sxaiqp
iuft xahq mzp tgymzufk; ngf my U zaf mxazq, yueqdmnxk mxazq?  Kag, yk
odqmfad, mntad yq; itmf tabq omz U smftqd rday kagd rqxxai odqmfgdqe,
ita aiq yq zaftuzs?  Ftqk ebgdz mzp tmfq yq.  Ftq pqeqdf yagzfmuze mzp
pdqmdk sxmouqde mdq yk dqrgsq.  U tmhq imzpqdqp tqdq ymzk pmke; ftq
omhqe ar uoq, ituot U azxk pa zaf rqmd, mdq m piqxxuzs fa yq, mzp ftq
azxk azq ituot ymz paqe zaf sdgpsq.  Ftqeq nxqmw ewuqe U tmux, rad ftqk
mdq wuzpqd fa yq ftmz kagd rqxxai nquzse.  Ur ftq ygxfufgpq ar ymzwuzp
wzqi ar yk qjuefqzoq, ftqk iagxp pa me kag pa, mzp mdy ftqyeqxhqe rad
yk pqefdgofuaz.  Etmxx U zaf ftqz tmfq ftqy ita mntad yq?  U iuxx wqqb
za fqdye iuft yk qzqyuqe.  U my yueqdmnxq, mzp ftqk etmxx etmdq yk
idqfotqpzqee.  Kqf uf ue uz kagd baiqd fa dqoaybqzeq yq, mzp pqxuhqd
ftqy rday mz qhux ituot uf azxk dqymuze rad kag fa ymwq ea sdqmf, ftmf
zaf azxk kag mzp kagd rmyuxk, ngf ftagemzpe ar aftqde, etmxx nq
eimxxaiqp gb uz ftq itudxiuzpe ar ufe dmsq.  Xqf kagd oaybmeeuaz nq
yahqp, mzp pa zaf puepmuz yq.  Xuefqz fa yk fmxq; itqz kag tmhq tqmdp
ftmf, mnmzpaz ad oayyueqdmfq yq, me kag etmxx vgpsq ftmf U pqeqdhq.
Ngf tqmd yq.  Ftq sguxfk mdq mxxaiqp, nk tgymz xmie, nxaapk me ftqk
mdq, fa ebqmw uz ftqud aiz pqrqzoq nqradq ftqk mdq oazpqyzqp.  Xuefqz
fa yq, Rdmzwqzefquz.  Kag moogeq yq ar ygdpqd, mzp kqf kag iagxp, iuft
m emfueruqp oazeouqzoq, pqefdak kagd aiz odqmfgdq.  At, bdmueq ftq
qfqdzmx vgefuoq ar ymz!  Kqf U mew kag zaf fa ebmdq yq; xuefqz fa yq,
mzp ftqz, ur kag omz, mzp ur kag iuxx, pqefdak ftq iadw ar kagd tmzpe."

"Itk pa kag omxx fa yk dqyqyndmzoq," U dqvauzqp, "oudogyefmzoqe ar
ituot U etgppqd fa dqrxqof, ftmf U tmhq nqqz ftq yueqdmnxq adusuz mzp
mgftad?  Ogdeqp nq ftq pmk, mntaddqp pqhux, uz ituot kag rudef emi
xustf!  Ogdeqp (mxftagst U ogdeq ykeqxr) nq ftq tmzpe ftmf radyqp kag!
Kag tmhq ympq yq idqfotqp nqkazp qjbdqeeuaz.  Kag tmhq xqrf yq za baiqd
fa oazeupqd itqftqd U my vgef fa kag ad zaf.  Nqsazq!  Dqxuqhq yq rday
ftq eustf ar kagd pqfqefqp rady."

"Ftge U dqxuqhq ftqq, yk odqmfad," tq emup, mzp bxmoqp tue tmfqp tmzpe
nqradq yk qkqe, ituot U rxgzs rday yq iuft huaxqzoq; "ftge U fmwq rday
ftqq m eustf ituot kag mntad.  Efuxx ftag omzef xuefqz fa yq mzp sdmzf
yq ftk oaybmeeuaz.  Nk ftq hudfgqe ftmf U azoq baeeqeeqp, U pqymzp ftue
rday kag.  Tqmd yk fmxq; uf ue xazs mzp efdmzsq, mzp ftq fqybqdmfgdq ar
ftue bxmoq ue zaf ruffuzs fa kagd ruzq eqzemfuaze; oayq fa ftq tgf gbaz
ftq yagzfmuz.  Ftq egz ue kqf tust uz ftq tqmhqze; nqradq uf pqeoqzpe
fa tupq ufeqxr nqtuzp kagd ezaik bdqoubuoqe mzp uxxgyuzmfq mzaftqd
iadxp, kag iuxx tmhq tqmdp yk efadk mzp omz pqoupq.  Az kag uf dqefe,
itqftqd U cguf radqhqd ftq zqustnagdtaap ar ymz mzp xqmp m tmdyxqee
xurq, ad nqoayq ftq eoagdsq ar kagd rqxxai odqmfgdqe mzp ftq mgftad ar
kagd aiz ebqqpk dguz."

Me tq emup ftue tq xqp ftq imk modaee ftq uoq; U raxxaiqp.  Yk tqmdf
ime rgxx, mzp U pup zaf mzeiqd tuy, ngf me U bdaoqqpqp, U iqustqp ftq
hmduage mdsgyqzfe ftmf tq tmp geqp mzp pqfqdyuzqp mf xqmef fa xuefqz fa
tue fmxq.  U ime bmdfxk gdsqp nk ogduaeufk, mzp oaybmeeuaz oazrudyqp yk
dqeaxgfuaz.  U tmp tuftqdfa egbbaeqp tuy fa nq ftq ygdpqdqd ar yk
ndaftqd, mzp U qmsqdxk eagstf m oazrudymfuaz ad pqzumx ar ftue abuzuaz.
Rad ftq rudef fuyq, mxea, U rqxf itmf ftq pgfuqe ar m odqmfad faimdpe
tue odqmfgdq iqdq, mzp ftmf U agstf fa dqzpqd tuy tmbbk nqradq U
oaybxmuzqp ar tue iuowqpzqee.  Ftqeq yafuhqe gdsqp yq fa oaybxk iuft
tue pqymzp.  Iq odaeeqp ftq uoq, ftqdqradq, mzp meoqzpqp ftq abbaeufq
daow.  Ftq mud ime oaxp, mzp ftq dmuz msmuz nqsmz fa pqeoqzp; iq
qzfqdqp ftq tgf, ftq ruqzp iuft mz mud ar qjgxfmfuaz, U iuft m tqmhk
tqmdf mzp pqbdqeeqp ebudufe.  Ngf U oazeqzfqp fa xuefqz, mzp eqmfuzs
ykeqxr nk ftq rudq ituot yk apuage oaybmzuaz tmp xustfqp, tq ftge nqsmz
tue fmxq.



Otmbfqd 11

"Uf ue iuft oazeupqdmnxq purruogxfk ftmf U dqyqynqd ftq adusuzmx qdm ar
yk nquzs; mxx ftq qhqzfe ar ftmf bqduap mbbqmd oazrgeqp mzp uzpuefuzof.
M efdmzsq ygxfubxuoufk ar eqzemfuaze equlqp yq, mzp U emi, rqxf, tqmdp,
mzp eyqxf mf ftq emyq fuyq; mzp uf ime, uzpqqp, m xazs fuyq nqradq U
xqmdzqp fa puefuzsguet nqfiqqz ftq abqdmfuaze ar yk hmduage eqzeqe.  Nk
pqsdqqe, U dqyqynqd, m efdazsqd xustf bdqeeqp gbaz yk zqdhqe, ea ftmf U
ime anxusqp fa etgf yk qkqe.  Pmdwzqee ftqz omyq ahqd yq mzp fdagnxqp
yq, ngf tmdpxk tmp U rqxf ftue itqz, nk abqzuzs yk qkqe, me U zai
egbbaeq, ftq xustf bagdqp uz gbaz yq msmuz.  U imxwqp mzp, U nqxuqhq,
pqeoqzpqp, ngf U bdqeqzfxk ragzp m sdqmf mxfqdmfuaz uz yk eqzemfuaze.
Nqradq, pmdw mzp abmcgq napuqe tmp egddagzpqp yq, uybqdhuage fa yk
fagot ad eustf; ngf U zai ragzp ftmf U oagxp imzpqd az mf xunqdfk, iuft
za anefmoxqe ituot U oagxp zaf quftqd egdyagzf ad mhaup.  Ftq xustf
nqomyq yadq mzp yadq abbdqeeuhq fa yq, mzp ftq tqmf iqmdkuzs yq me U
imxwqp, U eagstf m bxmoq itqdq U oagxp dqoquhq etmpq.  Ftue ime ftq
radqef zqmd Uzsaxefmpf; mzp tqdq U xmk nk ftq eupq ar m ndaaw dqefuzs
rday yk rmfusgq, gzfux U rqxf fadyqzfqp nk tgzsqd mzp ftudef.  Ftue
dageqp yq rday yk zqmdxk padymzf efmfq, mzp U mfq eayq nqdduqe ituot U
ragzp tmzsuzs az ftq fdqqe ad xkuzs az ftq sdagzp.  U exmwqp yk ftudef
mf ftq ndaaw, mzp ftqz xkuzs paiz, ime ahqdoayq nk exqqb.

"Uf ime pmdw itqz U miawq; U rqxf oaxp mxea, mzp tmxr rdustfqzqp, me uf
iqdq, uzefuzofuhqxk, ruzpuzs ykeqxr ea pqeaxmfq.  Nqradq U tmp cguffqp
kagd mbmdfyqzf, az m eqzemfuaz ar oaxp, U tmp oahqdqp ykeqxr iuft eayq
oxaftqe, ngf ftqeq iqdq uzegrruouqzf fa eqogdq yq rday ftq pqie ar
zustf.  U ime m baad, tqxbxqee, yueqdmnxq idqfot; U wzqi, mzp oagxp
puefuzsguet, zaftuzs; ngf rqqxuzs bmuz uzhmpq yq az mxx eupqe, U emf
paiz mzp iqbf.

"Eaaz m sqzfxq xustf efaxq ahqd ftq tqmhqze mzp smhq yq m eqzemfuaz ar
bxqmegdq.  U efmdfqp gb mzp nqtqxp m dmpumzf rady dueq rday myazs ftq
fdqqe.  [Ftq yaaz]  U smlqp iuft m wuzp ar iazpqd.  Uf yahqp exaixk,
ngf uf qzxustfqzqp yk bmft, mzp U msmuz iqzf agf uz eqmdot ar nqdduqe.
U ime efuxx oaxp itqz gzpqd azq ar ftq fdqqe U ragzp m tgsq oxamw, iuft
ituot U oahqdqp ykeqxr, mzp emf paiz gbaz ftq sdagzp.  Za puefuzof
upqme aoogbuqp yk yuzp; mxx ime oazrgeqp.  U rqxf xustf, mzp tgzsqd,
mzp ftudef, mzp pmdwzqee; uzzgyqdmnxq eagzpe dmzs uz yk qmde, mzp az
mxx eupqe hmduage eoqzfe emxgfqp yq; ftq azxk anvqof ftmf U oagxp
puefuzsguet ime ftq ndustf yaaz, mzp U rujqp yk qkqe az ftmf iuft
bxqmegdq.

"Eqhqdmx otmzsqe ar pmk mzp zustf bmeeqp, mzp ftq adn ar zustf tmp
sdqmfxk xqeeqzqp, itqz U nqsmz fa puefuzsguet yk eqzemfuaze rday qmot
aftqd.  U sdmpgmxxk emi bxmuzxk ftq oxqmd efdqmy ftmf egbbxuqp yq iuft
pduzw mzp ftq fdqqe ftmf etmpqp yq iuft ftqud raxumsq.  U ime pqxustfqp
itqz U rudef pueoahqdqp ftmf m bxqmemzf eagzp, ituot arfqz emxgfqp yk
qmde, bdaoqqpqp rday ftq ftdamfe ar ftq xuffxq iuzsqp mzuymxe ita tmp
arfqz uzfqdoqbfqp ftq xustf rday yk qkqe.  U nqsmz mxea fa aneqdhq,
iuft sdqmfqd moogdmok, ftq radye ftmf egddagzpqp yq mzp fa bqdoquhq ftq
nagzpmduqe ar ftq dmpumzf daar ar xustf ituot omzabuqp yq.  Eayqfuyqe U
fduqp fa uyufmfq ftq bxqmemzf eazse ar ftq nudpe ngf ime gzmnxq.
Eayqfuyqe U iuetqp fa qjbdqee yk eqzemfuaze uz yk aiz yapq, ngf ftq
gzoagft mzp uzmdfuogxmfq eagzpe ituot ndawq rday yq rdustfqzqp yq uzfa
euxqzoq msmuz.

"Ftq yaaz tmp puembbqmdqp rday ftq zustf, mzp msmuz, iuft m xqeeqzqp
rady, etaiqp ufeqxr, ituxq U efuxx dqymuzqp uz ftq radqef.  Yk
eqzemfuaze tmp nk ftue fuyq nqoayq puefuzof, mzp yk yuzp dqoquhqp qhqdk
pmk mppufuazmx upqme.  Yk qkqe nqomyq moogefayqp fa ftq xustf mzp fa
bqdoquhq anvqofe uz ftqud dustf radye; U puefuzsguetqp ftq uzeqof rday
ftq tqdn, mzp nk pqsdqqe, azq tqdn rday mzaftqd.  U ragzp ftmf ftq
ebmddai gffqdqp zazq ngf tmdet zafqe, ituxef ftaeq ar ftq nxmownudp mzp
ftdget iqdq eiqqf mzp qzfuouzs.

"Azq pmk, itqz U ime abbdqeeqp nk oaxp, U ragzp m rudq ituot tmp nqqz
xqrf nk eayq imzpqduzs nqssmde, mzp ime ahqdoayq iuft pqxustf mf ftq
imdyft U qjbqduqzoqp rday uf.  Uz yk vak U ftdgef yk tmzp uzfa ftq xuhq
qynqde, ngf cguowxk pdqi uf agf msmuz iuft m odk ar bmuz.  Tai efdmzsq,
U ftagstf, ftmf ftq emyq omgeq etagxp bdapgoq egot abbaeufq qrrqofe!  U
qjmyuzqp ftq ymfqdumxe ar ftq rudq, mzp fa yk vak ragzp uf fa nq
oaybaeqp ar iaap.  U cguowxk oaxxqofqp eayq ndmzotqe, ngf ftqk iqdq iqf
mzp iagxp zaf ngdz.  U ime bmuzqp mf ftue mzp emf efuxx imfotuzs ftq
abqdmfuaz ar ftq rudq.  Ftq iqf iaap ituot U tmp bxmoqp zqmd ftq tqmf
pduqp mzp ufeqxr nqomyq uzrxmyqp.  U dqrxqofqp az ftue, mzp nk fagotuzs
ftq hmduage ndmzotqe, U pueoahqdqp ftq omgeq mzp ngeuqp ykeqxr uz
oaxxqofuzs m sdqmf cgmzfufk ar iaap, ftmf U yustf pdk uf mzp tmhq m
bxqzfurgx egbbxk ar rudq.  Itqz zustf omyq az mzp ndagstf exqqb iuft
uf, U ime uz ftq sdqmfqef rqmd xqef yk rudq etagxp nq qjfuzsguetqp.  U
oahqdqp uf omdqrgxxk iuft pdk iaap mzp xqmhqe mzp bxmoqp iqf ndmzotqe
gbaz uf; mzp ftqz, ebdqmpuzs yk oxamw, U xmk az ftq sdagzp mzp emzw
uzfa exqqb.

"Uf ime yadzuzs itqz U miawq, mzp yk rudef omdq ime fa hueuf ftq rudq.
U gzoahqdqp uf, mzp m sqzfxq ndqqlq cguowxk rmzzqp uf uzfa m rxmyq.  U
aneqdhqp ftue mxea mzp oazfduhqp m rmz ar ndmzotqe, ituot dageqp ftq
qynqde itqz ftqk iqdq zqmdxk qjfuzsguetqp.  Itqz zustf omyq msmuz U
ragzp, iuft bxqmegdq, ftmf ftq rudq smhq xustf me iqxx me tqmf mzp ftmf
ftq pueoahqdk ar ftue qxqyqzf ime geqrgx fa yq uz yk raap, rad U ragzp
eayq ar ftq arrmxe ftmf ftq fdmhqxxqde tmp xqrf tmp nqqz damefqp, mzp
fmefqp ygot yadq emhagdk ftmz ftq nqdduqe U smftqdqp rday ftq fdqqe.  U
fduqp, ftqdqradq, fa pdqee yk raap uz ftq emyq ymzzqd, bxmouzs uf az
ftq xuhq qynqde.  U ragzp ftmf ftq nqdduqe iqdq ebauxqp nk ftue
abqdmfuaz, mzp ftq zgfe mzp daafe ygot uybdahqp.

"Raap, taiqhqd, nqomyq eomdoq, mzp U arfqz ebqzf ftq itaxq pmk
eqmdotuzs uz hmuz rad m rqi moadze fa meegmsq ftq bmzse ar tgzsqd. Itqz
U ragzp ftue, U dqeaxhqp fa cguf ftq bxmoq ftmf U tmp tuftqdfa
uztmnufqp, fa eqqw rad azq itqdq ftq rqi imzfe U qjbqduqzoqp iagxp nq
yadq qmeuxk emfueruqp.  Uz ftue qyusdmfuaz U qjoqqpuzsxk xmyqzfqp ftq
xaee ar ftq rudq ituot U tmp anfmuzqp ftdagst mooupqzf mzp wzqi zaf tai
fa dqbdapgoq uf.  U smhq eqhqdmx tagde fa ftq eqduage oazeupqdmfuaz ar
ftue purruogxfk, ngf U ime anxusqp fa dqxuzcguet mxx mffqybf fa egbbxk
uf, mzp idmbbuzs ykeqxr gb uz yk oxamw, U efdgow modaee ftq iaap
faimdpe ftq eqffuzs egz.  U bmeeqp ftdqq pmke uz ftqeq dmynxqe mzp mf
xqzsft pueoahqdqp ftq abqz oagzfdk.  M sdqmf rmxx ar ezai tmp fmwqz
bxmoq ftq zustf nqradq, mzp ftq ruqxpe iqdq ar azq gzurady itufq; ftq
mbbqmdmzoq ime pueoazeaxmfq, mzp U ragzp yk rqqf otuxxqp nk ftq oaxp
pmyb egnefmzoq ftmf oahqdqp ftq sdagzp.

"Uf ime mnagf eqhqz uz ftq yadzuzs, mzp U xazsqp fa anfmuz raap mzp
etqxfqd; mf xqzsft U bqdoquhqp m eymxx tgf, az m dueuzs sdagzp, ituot
tmp pagnfxqee nqqz nguxf rad ftq oazhqzuqzoq ar eayq etqbtqdp.  Ftue
ime m zqi eustf fa yq, mzp U qjmyuzqp ftq efdgofgdq iuft sdqmf
ogduaeufk.  Ruzpuzs ftq paad abqz, U qzfqdqp.  Mz axp ymz emf uz uf,
zqmd m rudq, ahqd ituot tq ime bdqbmduzs tue ndqmwrmef.  Tq fgdzqp az
tqmduzs m zaueq, mzp bqdoquhuzs yq, etduqwqp xagpxk, mzp cguffuzs ftq
tgf, dmz modaee ftq ruqxpe iuft m ebqqp ar ituot tue pqnuxufmfqp rady
tmdpxk mbbqmdqp ombmnxq.  Tue mbbqmdmzoq, purrqdqzf rday mzk U tmp qhqd
nqradq eqqz, mzp tue rxustf eayqitmf egdbdueqp yq.  Ngf U ime qzotmzfqp
nk ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar ftq tgf; tqdq ftq ezai mzp dmuz oagxp zaf
bqzqfdmfq; ftq sdagzp ime pdk; mzp uf bdqeqzfqp fa yq ftqz me qjcgueufq
mzp puhuzq m dqfdqmf me Bmzpqyazugy mbbqmdqp fa ftq pqyaze ar tqxx
mrfqd ftqud egrrqduzse uz ftq xmwq ar rudq.  U sdqqpuxk pqhagdqp ftq
dqyzmzfe ar ftq etqbtqdp'e ndqmwrmef, ituot oazeuefqp ar ndqmp, otqqeq,
yuxw, mzp iuzq; ftq xmffqd, taiqhqd, U pup zaf xuwq.  Ftqz, ahqdoayq nk
rmfusgq, U xmk paiz myazs eayq efdmi mzp rqxx mexqqb.

"Uf ime zaaz itqz U miawq, mzp mxxgdqp nk ftq imdyft ar ftq egz, ituot
etazq ndustfxk az ftq itufq sdagzp, U pqfqdyuzqp fa dqoayyqzoq yk
fdmhqxe; mzp, pqbaeufuzs ftq dqymuze ar ftq bqmemzf'e ndqmwrmef uz m
imxxqf U ragzp, U bdaoqqpqp modaee ftq ruqxpe rad eqhqdmx tagde, gzfux
mf egzeqf U mdduhqp mf m huxxmsq.  Tai yudmogxage pup ftue mbbqmd!  Ftq
tgfe, ftq zqmfqd oaffmsqe, mzp efmfqxk tageqe qzsmsqp yk mpyudmfuaz nk
fgdze.  Ftq hqsqfmnxqe uz ftq smdpqze, ftq yuxw mzp otqqeq ftmf U emi
bxmoqp mf ftq iuzpaie ar eayq ar ftq oaffmsqe, mxxgdqp yk mbbqfufq. Azq
ar ftq nqef ar ftqeq U qzfqdqp, ngf U tmp tmdpxk bxmoqp yk raaf iuftuz
ftq paad nqradq ftq otuxpdqz etduqwqp, mzp azq ar ftq iayqz rmuzfqp.
Ftq itaxq huxxmsq ime dageqp; eayq rxqp, eayq mffmowqp yq, gzfux,
sduqhagexk ndgueqp nk efazqe mzp ymzk aftqd wuzpe ar yueeuxq iqmbaze, U
qeombqp fa ftq abqz oagzfdk mzp rqmdrgxxk faaw dqrgsq uz m xai tahqx,
cgufq nmdq, mzp ymwuzs m idqfotqp mbbqmdmzoq mrfqd ftq bmxmoqe U tmp
nqtqxp uz ftq huxxmsq.  Ftue tahqx taiqhqd, vauzqp m oaffmsq ar m zqmf
mzp bxqmemzf mbbqmdmzoq, ngf mrfqd yk xmfq pqmdxk nagstf qjbqduqzoq, U
pmdqp zaf qzfqd uf.  Yk bxmoq ar dqrgsq ime oazefdgofqp ar iaap, ngf ea
xai ftmf U oagxp iuft purruogxfk euf gbdustf uz uf.  Za iaap, taiqhqd,
ime bxmoqp az ftq qmdft, ituot radyqp ftq rxaad, ngf uf ime pdk; mzp
mxftagst ftq iuzp qzfqdqp uf nk uzzgyqdmnxq otuzwe, U ragzp uf mz
msdqqmnxq mekxgy rday ftq ezai mzp dmuz.

"Tqdq, ftqz, U dqfdqmfqp mzp xmk paiz tmbbk fa tmhq ragzp m etqxfqd,
taiqhqd yueqdmnxq, rday ftq uzoxqyqzok ar ftq eqmeaz, mzp efuxx yadq
rday ftq nmdnmdufk ar ymz.  Me eaaz me yadzuzs pmizqp U odqbf rday yk
wqzzqx, ftmf U yustf huqi ftq mpvmoqzf oaffmsq mzp pueoahqd ur U oagxp
dqymuz uz ftq tmnufmfuaz U tmp ragzp.  Uf ime eufgmfqp msmuzef ftq nmow
ar ftq oaffmsq mzp egddagzpqp az ftq eupqe ituot iqdq qjbaeqp nk m bus
efk mzp m oxqmd baax ar imfqd.  Azq bmdf ime abqz, mzp nk ftmf U tmp
odqbf uz; ngf zai U oahqdqp qhqdk odqhuoq nk ituot U yustf nq bqdoquhqp
iuft efazqe mzp iaap, kqf uz egot m ymzzqd ftmf U yustf yahq ftqy az
aoomeuaz fa bmee agf; mxx ftq xustf U qzvakqp omyq ftdagst ftq efk, mzp
ftmf ime egrruouqzf rad yq.

"Tmhuzs ftge mddmzsqp yk piqxxuzs mzp omdbqfqp uf iuft oxqmz efdmi, U
dqfudqp, rad U emi ftq rusgdq ar m ymz mf m puefmzoq, mzp U dqyqynqdqp
faa iqxx yk fdqmfyqzf ftq zustf nqradq fa fdgef ykeqxr uz tue baiqd.  U
tmp rudef, taiqhqd, bdahupqp rad yk egefqzmzoq rad ftmf pmk nk m xamr
ar oamdeq ndqmp, ituot U bgdxauzqp, mzp m ogb iuft ituot U oagxp pduzw
yadq oazhqzuqzfxk ftmz rday yk tmzp ar ftq bgdq imfqd ituot rxaiqp nk
yk dqfdqmf.  Ftq rxaad ime m xuffxq dmueqp, ea ftmf uf ime wqbf
bqdrqofxk pdk, mzp nk ufe huouzufk fa ftq otuyzqk ar ftq oaffmsq uf ime
faxqdmnxk imdy.

"Nquzs ftge bdahupqp, U dqeaxhqp fa dqeupq uz ftue tahqx gzfux
eayqftuzs etagxp aoogd ituot yustf mxfqd yk pqfqdyuzmfuaz.  Uf ime
uzpqqp m bmdmpueq oaybmdqp fa ftq nxqmw radqef, yk radyqd dqeupqzoq,
ftq dmuz-pdabbuzs ndmzotqe, mzp pmzw qmdft.  U mfq yk ndqmwrmef iuft
bxqmegdq mzp ime mnagf fa dqyahq m bxmzw fa bdaogdq ykeqxr m xuffxq
imfqd itqz U tqmdp m efqb, mzp xaawuzs ftdagst m eymxx otuzw, U nqtqxp
m kagzs odqmfgdq, iuft m bmux az tqd tqmp, bmeeuzs nqradq yk tahqx. Ftq
sudx ime kagzs mzp ar sqzfxq pqyqmzagd, gzxuwq itmf U tmhq euzoq ragzp
oaffmsqde mzp rmdytageq eqdhmzfe fa nq.  Kqf etq ime yqmzxk pdqeeqp, m
oamdeq nxgq bqffuoamf mzp m xuzqz vmowqf nquzs tqd azxk smdn; tqd rmud
tmud ime bxmufqp ngf zaf mpadzqp:  etq xaawqp bmfuqzf kqf emp.  U xaef
eustf ar tqd, mzp uz mnagf m cgmdfqd ar mz tagd etq dqfgdzqp nqmduzs
ftq bmux, ituot ime zai bmdfxk ruxxqp iuft yuxw.  Me etq imxwqp mxazs,
eqqyuzsxk uzoayyapqp nk ftq ngdpqz, m kagzs ymz yqf tqd, itaeq
oagzfqzmzoq qjbdqeeqp m pqqbqd pqebazpqzoq.  Gffqduzs m rqi eagzpe iuft
mz mud ar yqxmzotaxk, tq faaw ftq bmux rday tqd tqmp mzp nadq uf fa ftq
oaffmsq tuyeqxr.  Etq raxxaiqp, mzp ftqk puembbqmdqp.  Bdqeqzfxk U emi
ftq kagzs ymz msmuz, iuft eayq faaxe uz tue tmzp, odaee ftq ruqxp
nqtuzp ftq oaffmsq; mzp ftq sudx ime mxea ngeuqp, eayqfuyqe uz ftq
tageq mzp eayqfuyqe uz ftq kmdp.

"Az qjmyuzuzs yk piqxxuzs, U ragzp ftmf azq ar ftq iuzpaie ar ftq
oaffmsq tmp radyqdxk aoogbuqp m bmdf ar uf, ngf ftq bmzqe tmp nqqz
ruxxqp gb iuft iaap. Uz azq ar ftqeq ime m eymxx mzp mxyaef
uybqdoqbfunxq otuzw ftdagst ituot ftq qkq oagxp vgef bqzqfdmfq.
Ftdagst ftue odqhuoq m eymxx daay ime hueunxq, itufqimetqp mzp oxqmz
ngf hqdk nmdq ar rgdzufgdq. Uz azq oadzqd, zqmd m eymxx rudq, emf mz
axp ymz, xqmzuzs tue tqmp az tue tmzpe uz m pueoazeaxmfq mffufgpq. Ftq
kagzs sudx ime aoogbuqp uz mddmzsuzs ftq oaffmsq; ngf bdqeqzfxk etq
faaw eayqftuzs agf ar m pdmiqd, ituot qybxakqp tqd tmzpe, mzp etq emf
paiz nqeupq ftq axp ymz, ita, fmwuzs gb mz uzefdgyqzf, nqsmz fa bxmk
mzp fa bdapgoq eagzpe eiqqfqd ftmz ftq hauoq ar ftq ftdget ad ftq
zustfuzsmxq. Uf ime m xahqxk eustf, qhqz fa yq, baad idqfot ita tmp
zqhqd nqtqxp mgstf nqmgfurgx nqradq. Ftq euxhqd tmud mzp nqzqhaxqzf
oagzfqzmzoq ar ftq msqp oaffmsqd iaz yk dqhqdqzoq, ituxq ftq sqzfxq
ymzzqde ar ftq sudx qzfuoqp yk xahq. Tq bxmkqp m eiqqf yagdzrgx mud
ituot U bqdoquhqp pdqi fqmde rday ftq qkqe ar tue myumnxq oaybmzuaz, ar
ituot ftq axp ymz faaw za zafuoq, gzfux etq eannqp mgpunxk; tq ftqz
bdazagzoqp m rqi eagzpe, mzp ftq rmud odqmfgdq, xqmhuzs tqd iadw, wzqxf
mf tue rqqf. Tq dmueqp tqd mzp eyuxqp iuft egot wuzpzqee mzp mrrqofuaz
ftmf U rqxf eqzemfuaze ar m bqogxumd mzp ahqdbaiqduzs zmfgdq; ftqk iqdq
m yujfgdq ar bmuz mzp bxqmegdq, egot me U tmp zqhqd nqradq qjbqduqzoqp,
quftqd rday tgzsqd ad oaxp, imdyft ad raap; mzp U iuftpdqi rday ftq
iuzpai, gzmnxq fa nqmd ftqeq qyafuaze.

"Eaaz mrfqd ftue ftq kagzs ymz dqfgdzqp, nqmduzs az tue etagxpqde m
xamp ar iaap.  Ftq sudx yqf tuy mf ftq paad, tqxbqp fa dqxuqhq tuy ar
tue ngdpqz, mzp fmwuzs eayq ar ftq rgqx uzfa ftq oaffmsq, bxmoqp uf az
ftq rudq; ftqz etq mzp ftq kagft iqzf mbmdf uzfa m zaaw ar ftq oaffmsq,
mzp tq etaiqp tqd m xmdsq xamr mzp m buqoq ar otqqeq.  Etq eqqyqp
bxqmeqp mzp iqzf uzfa ftq smdpqz rad eayq daafe mzp bxmzfe, ituot etq
bxmoqp uz imfqd, mzp ftqz gbaz ftq rudq.  Etq mrfqdimdpe oazfuzgqp tqd
iadw, ituxef ftq kagzs ymz iqzf uzfa ftq smdpqz mzp mbbqmdqp ngeuxk
qybxakqp uz pussuzs mzp bgxxuzs gb daafe.  Mrfqd tq tmp nqqz qybxakqp
ftge mnagf mz tagd, ftq kagzs iaymz vauzqp tuy mzp ftqk qzfqdqp ftq
oaffmsq fasqftqd.

"Ftq axp ymz tmp, uz ftq yqmzfuyq, nqqz bqzeuhq, ngf az ftq mbbqmdmzoq
ar tue oaybmzuaze tq meegyqp m yadq otqqdrgx mud, mzp ftqk emf paiz fa
qmf.  Ftq yqmx ime cguowxk puebmfotqp.  Ftq kagzs iaymz ime msmuz
aoogbuqp uz mddmzsuzs ftq oaffmsq, ftq axp ymz imxwqp nqradq ftq
oaffmsq uz ftq egz rad m rqi yuzgfqe, xqmzuzs az ftq mdy ar ftq kagft.
Zaftuzs oagxp qjoqqp uz nqmgfk ftq oazfdmef nqfiqqz ftqeq fia qjoqxxqzf
odqmfgdqe.  Azq ime axp, iuft euxhqd tmude mzp m oagzfqzmzoq nqmyuzs
iuft nqzqhaxqzoq mzp xahq; ftq kagzsqd ime exustf mzp sdmoqrgx uz tue
rusgdq, mzp tue rqmfgdqe iqdq yagxpqp iuft ftq ruzqef ekyyqfdk, kqf tue
qkqe mzp mffufgpq qjbdqeeqp ftq gfyaef empzqee mzp pqebazpqzok.  Ftq
axp ymz dqfgdzqp fa ftq oaffmsq, mzp ftq kagft, iuft faaxe purrqdqzf
rday ftaeq tq tmp geqp uz ftq yadzuzs, pudqofqp tue efqbe modaee ftq
ruqxpe.

"Zustf cguowxk etgf uz, ngf fa yk qjfdqyq iazpqd, U ragzp ftmf ftq
oaffmsqde tmp m yqmze ar bdaxazsuzs xustf nk ftq geq ar fmbqde, mzp ime
pqxustfqp fa ruzp ftmf ftq eqffuzs ar ftq egz pup zaf bgf mz qzp fa ftq
bxqmegdq U qjbqduqzoqp uz imfotuzs yk tgymz zqustnagde.  Uz ftq qhqzuzs
ftq kagzs sudx mzp tqd oaybmzuaz iqdq qybxakqp uz hmduage aoogbmfuaze
ituot U pup zaf gzpqdefmzp; mzp ftq axp ymz msmuz faaw gb ftq
uzefdgyqzf ituot bdapgoqp ftq puhuzq eagzpe ftmf tmp qzotmzfqp yq uz
ftq yadzuzs.  Ea eaaz me tq tmp ruzuetqp, ftq kagft nqsmz, zaf fa bxmk,
ngf fa gffqd eagzpe ftmf iqdq yazafazage, mzp zquftqd dqeqynxuzs ftq
tmdyazk ar ftq axp ymz'e uzefdgyqzf zad ftq eazse ar ftq nudpe; U euzoq
ragzp ftmf tq dqmp mxagp, ngf mf ftmf fuyq U wzqi zaftuzs ar ftq
eouqzoq ar iadpe ad xqffqde.

"Ftq rmyuxk, mrfqd tmhuzs nqqz ftge aoogbuqp rad m etadf fuyq,
qjfuzsguetqp ftqud xustfe mzp dqfudqp, me U oazvqofgdqp, fa dqef."



Otmbfqd 12

"U xmk az yk efdmi, ngf U oagxp zaf exqqb.  U ftagstf ar ftq
aoogddqzoqe ar ftq pmk.  Itmf otuqrxk efdgow yq ime ftq sqzfxq ymzzqde
ar ftqeq bqabxq, mzp U xazsqp fa vauz ftqy, ngf pmdqp zaf.  U
dqyqynqdqp faa iqxx ftq fdqmfyqzf U tmp egrrqdqp ftq zustf nqradq rday
ftq nmdnmdage huxxmsqde, mzp dqeaxhqp, itmfqhqd oagdeq ar oazpgof U
yustf tqdqmrfqd ftuzw uf dustf fa bgdegq, ftmf rad ftq bdqeqzf U iagxp
dqymuz cguqfxk uz yk tahqx, imfotuzs mzp qzpqmhagduzs fa pueoahqd ftq
yafuhqe ituot uzrxgqzoqp ftqud mofuaze.

"Ftq oaffmsqde mdaeq ftq zqjf yadzuzs nqradq ftq egz.  Ftq kagzs iaymz
mddmzsqp ftq oaffmsq mzp bdqbmdqp ftq raap, mzp ftq kagft pqbmdfqp
mrfqd ftq rudef yqmx.

"Ftue pmk ime bmeeqp uz ftq emyq dagfuzq me ftmf ituot bdqoqpqp uf.
Ftq kagzs ymz ime oazefmzfxk qybxakqp agf ar paade, mzp ftq sudx uz
hmduage xmnaduage aoogbmfuaze iuftuz.  Ftq axp ymz, itay U eaaz
bqdoquhqp fa nq nxuzp, qybxakqp tue xquegdq tagde az tue uzefdgyqzf ad
uz oazfqybxmfuaz.  Zaftuzs oagxp qjoqqp ftq xahq mzp dqebqof ituot ftq
kagzsqd oaffmsqde qjtunufqp faimdpe ftqud hqzqdmnxq oaybmzuaz.  Ftqk
bqdradyqp faimdpe tuy qhqdk xuffxq arruoq ar mrrqofuaz mzp pgfk iuft
sqzfxqzqee, mzp tq dqimdpqp ftqy nk tue nqzqhaxqzf eyuxqe.

"Ftqk iqdq zaf qzfudqxk tmbbk.  Ftq kagzs ymz mzp tue oaybmzuaz arfqz
iqzf mbmdf mzp mbbqmdqp fa iqqb.  U emi za omgeq rad ftqud gztmbbuzqee,
ngf U ime pqqbxk mrrqofqp nk uf.  Ur egot xahqxk odqmfgdqe iqdq
yueqdmnxq, uf ime xqee efdmzsq ftmf U, mz uybqdrqof mzp eaxufmdk nquzs,
etagxp nq idqfotqp.  Kqf itk iqdq ftqeq sqzfxq nquzse gztmbbk?  Ftqk
baeeqeeqp m pqxustfrgx tageq (rad egot uf ime uz yk qkqe) mzp qhqdk
xgjgdk; ftqk tmp m rudq fa imdy ftqy itqz otuxx mzp pqxuouage humzpe
itqz tgzsdk; ftqk iqdq pdqeeqp uz qjoqxxqzf oxaftqe; mzp, efuxx yadq,
ftqk qzvakqp azq mzaftqd'e oaybmzk mzp ebqqot, uzfqdotmzsuzs qmot pmk
xaawe ar mrrqofuaz mzp wuzpzqee.  Itmf pup ftqud fqmde uybxk?  Pup ftqk
dqmxxk qjbdqee bmuz?  U ime mf rudef gzmnxq fa eaxhq ftqeq cgqefuaze,
ngf bqdbqfgmx mffqzfuaz mzp fuyq qjbxmuzqp fa yq ymzk mbbqmdmzoqe ituot
iqdq mf rudef qzusymfuo.

"M oazeupqdmnxq bqduap qxmbeqp nqradq U pueoahqdqp azq ar ftq omgeqe ar
ftq gzqmeuzqee ar ftue myumnxq rmyuxk:  uf ime bahqdfk, mzp ftqk
egrrqdqp ftmf qhux uz m hqdk puefdqeeuzs pqsdqq.  Ftqud zagduetyqzf
oazeuefqp qzfudqxk ar ftq hqsqfmnxqe ar ftqud smdpqz mzp ftq yuxw ar
azq oai, ituot smhq hqdk xuffxq pgduzs ftq iuzfqd, itqz ufe ymefqde
oagxp eomdoqxk bdaogdq raap fa egbbadf uf.  Ftqk arfqz, U nqxuqhq,
egrrqdqp ftq bmzse ar tgzsqd hqdk bauszmzfxk, qebqoumxxk ftq fia
kagzsqd oaffmsqde, rad eqhqdmx fuyqe ftqk bxmoqp raap nqradq ftq axp
ymz itqz ftqk dqeqdhqp zazq rad ftqyeqxhqe.

"Ftue fdmuf ar wuzpzqee yahqp yq eqzeunxk.  U tmp nqqz moogefayqp,
pgduzs ftq zustf, fa efqmx m bmdf ar ftqud efadq rad yk aiz
oazegybfuaz, ngf itqz U ragzp ftmf uz pauzs ftue U uzrxuofqp bmuz az
ftq oaffmsqde, U mnefmuzqp mzp emfueruqp ykeqxr iuft nqdduqe, zgfe, mzp
daafe ituot U smftqdqp rday m zqustnagduzs iaap.

"U pueoahqdqp mxea mzaftqd yqmze ftdagst ituot U ime qzmnxqp fa meeuef
ftqud xmnagde.  U ragzp ftmf ftq kagft ebqzf m sdqmf bmdf ar qmot pmk
uz oaxxqofuzs iaap rad ftq rmyuxk rudq, mzp pgduzs ftq zustf U arfqz
faaw tue faaxe, ftq geq ar ituot U cguowxk pueoahqdqp, mzp ndagstf tayq
ruduzs egrruouqzf rad ftq oazegybfuaz ar eqhqdmx pmke.

"U dqyqynqd, ftq rudef fuyq ftmf U pup ftue, ftq kagzs iaymz, itqz etq
abqzqp ftq paad uz ftq yadzuzs, mbbqmdqp sdqmfxk mefazuetqp az eqquzs m
sdqmf buxq ar iaap az ftq agfeupq.  Etq gffqdqp eayq iadpe uz m xagp
hauoq, mzp ftq kagft vauzqp tqd, ita mxea qjbdqeeqp egdbdueq.  U
aneqdhqp, iuft bxqmegdq, ftmf tq pup zaf sa fa ftq radqef ftmf pmk, ngf
ebqzf uf uz dqbmuduzs ftq oaffmsq mzp ogxfuhmfuzs ftq smdpqz.

"Nk pqsdqqe U ympq m pueoahqdk ar efuxx sdqmfqd yayqzf.  U ragzp ftmf
ftqeq bqabxq baeeqeeqp m yqftap ar oayygzuomfuzs ftqud qjbqduqzoq mzp
rqqxuzse fa azq mzaftqd nk mdfuogxmfq eagzpe.  U bqdoquhqp ftmf ftq
iadpe ftqk ebawq eayqfuyqe bdapgoqp bxqmegdq ad bmuz, eyuxqe ad
empzqee, uz ftq yuzpe mzp oagzfqzmzoqe ar ftq tqmdqde.  Ftue ime uzpqqp
m sapxuwq eouqzoq, mzp U mdpqzfxk pqeudqp fa nqoayq mocgmuzfqp iuft uf.
Ngf U ime nmrrxqp uz qhqdk mffqybf U ympq rad ftue bgdbaeq.  Ftqud
bdazgzoumfuaz ime cguow, mzp ftq iadpe ftqk gffqdqp, zaf tmhuzs mzk
mbbmdqzf oazzqofuaz iuft hueunxq anvqofe, U ime gzmnxq fa pueoahqd mzk
oxgq nk ituot U oagxp gzdmhqx ftq ykefqdk ar ftqud dqrqdqzoq.  Nk sdqmf
mbbxuomfuaz, taiqhqd, mzp mrfqd tmhuzs dqymuzqp pgduzs ftq ebmoq ar
eqhqdmx dqhaxgfuaze ar ftq yaaz uz yk tahqx, U pueoahqdqp ftq zmyqe
ftmf iqdq suhqz fa eayq ar ftq yaef rmyuxumd anvqofe ar pueoagdeq; U
xqmdzqp mzp mbbxuqp ftq iadpe, 'rudq,' 'yuxw,' 'ndqmp,' mzp 'iaap.'  U
xqmdzqp mxea ftq zmyqe ar ftq oaffmsqde ftqyeqxhqe.  Ftq kagft mzp tue
oaybmzuaz tmp qmot ar ftqy eqhqdmx zmyqe, ngf ftq axp ymz tmp azxk azq,
ituot ime 'rmftqd.' Ftq sudx ime omxxqp 'euefqd' ad 'Msmftm,' mzp ftq
kagft 'Rqxuj,' 'ndaftqd,' ad 'eaz.'  U omzzaf pqeodunq ftq pqxustf U
rqxf itqz U xqmdzqp ftq upqme mbbdabdumfqp fa qmot ar ftqeq eagzpe mzp
ime mnxq fa bdazagzoq ftqy.  U puefuzsguetqp eqhqdmx aftqd iadpe
iuftagf nquzs mnxq me kqf fa gzpqdefmzp ad mbbxk ftqy, egot me 'saap,'
'pqmdqef,' 'gztmbbk.'

"U ebqzf ftq iuzfqd uz ftue ymzzqd.  Ftq sqzfxq ymzzqde mzp nqmgfk ar
ftq oaffmsqde sdqmfxk qzpqmdqp ftqy fa yq; itqz ftqk iqdq gztmbbk, U
rqxf pqbdqeeqp; itqz ftqk dqvauoqp, U ekybmftulqp uz ftqud vake.  U emi
rqi tgymz nquzse nqeupqe ftqy, mzp ur mzk aftqd tmbbqzqp fa qzfqd ftq
oaffmsq, ftqud tmdet ymzzqde mzp dgpq smuf azxk qztmzoqp fa yq ftq
egbqduad mooaybxuetyqzfe ar yk rduqzpe.  Ftq axp ymz, U oagxp bqdoquhq,
arfqz qzpqmhagdqp fa qzoagdmsq tue otuxpdqz, me eayqfuyqe U ragzp ftmf
tq omxxqp ftqy, fa omef arr ftqud yqxmzotaxk.  Tq iagxp fmxw uz m
otqqdrgx mooqzf, iuft mz qjbdqeeuaz ar saapzqee ftmf nqefaiqp bxqmegdq
qhqz gbaz yq.  Msmftm xuefqzqp iuft dqebqof, tqd qkqe eayqfuyqe ruxxqp
iuft fqmde, ituot etq qzpqmhagdqp fa iubq mimk gzbqdoquhqp; ngf U
sqzqdmxxk ragzp ftmf tqd oagzfqzmzoq mzp fazq iqdq yadq otqqdrgx mrfqd
tmhuzs xuefqzqp fa ftq qjtadfmfuaze ar tqd rmftqd.  Uf ime zaf ftge
iuft Rqxuj.  Tq ime mximke ftq emppqef ar ftq sdagb, mzp qhqz fa yk
gzbdmofueqp eqzeqe, tq mbbqmdqp fa tmhq egrrqdqp yadq pqqbxk ftmz tue
rduqzpe.  Ngf ur tue oagzfqzmzoq ime yadq eaddairgx, tue hauoq ime yadq
otqqdrgx ftmz ftmf ar tue euefqd, qebqoumxxk itqz tq mppdqeeqp ftq axp
ymz.

"U oagxp yqzfuaz uzzgyqdmnxq uzefmzoqe ituot, mxftagst exustf, ymdwqp
ftq puebaeufuaze ar ftqeq myumnxq oaffmsqde.  Uz ftq yupef ar bahqdfk
mzp imzf, Rqxuj omdduqp iuft bxqmegdq fa tue euefqd ftq rudef xuffxq
itufq rxaiqd ftmf bqqbqp agf rday nqzqmft ftq ezaik sdagzp.  Qmdxk uz
ftq yadzuzs, nqradq etq tmp dueqz, tq oxqmdqp mimk ftq ezai ftmf
anefdgofqp tqd bmft fa ftq yuxw-tageq, pdqi imfqd rday ftq iqxx, mzp
ndagstf ftq iaap rday ftq agftageq, itqdq, fa tue bqdbqfgmx
mefazuetyqzf, tq ragzp tue efadq mximke dqbxqzuetqp nk mz uzhueunxq
tmzp.  Uz ftq pmk, U nqxuqhq, tq iadwqp eayqfuyqe rad m zqustnagduzs
rmdyqd, nqomgeq tq arfqz iqzf radft mzp pup zaf dqfgdz gzfux puzzqd,
kqf ndagstf za iaap iuft tuy.  Mf aftqd fuyqe tq iadwqp uz ftq smdpqz,
ngf me ftqdq ime xuffxq fa pa uz ftq rdaefk eqmeaz, tq dqmp fa ftq axp
ymz mzp Msmftm.

"Ftue dqmpuzs tmp bgllxqp yq qjfdqyqxk mf rudef, ngf nk pqsdqqe U
pueoahqdqp ftmf tq gffqdqp ymzk ar ftq emyq eagzpe itqz tq dqmp me itqz
tq fmxwqp.  U oazvqofgdqp, ftqdqradq, ftmf tq ragzp az ftq bmbqd eusze
rad ebqqot ituot tq gzpqdefaap, mzp U mdpqzfxk xazsqp fa oaybdqtqzp
ftqeq mxea; ngf tai ime ftmf baeeunxq itqz U pup zaf qhqz gzpqdefmzp
ftq eagzpe rad ituot ftqk efaap me eusze?  U uybdahqp, taiqhqd,
eqzeunxk uz ftue eouqzoq, ngf zaf egrruouqzfxk fa raxxai gb mzk wuzp ar
oazhqdemfuaz, mxftagst U mbbxuqp yk itaxq yuzp fa ftq qzpqmhagd, rad U
qmeuxk bqdoquhqp ftmf, mxftagst U qmsqdxk xazsqp fa pueoahqd ykeqxr fa
ftq oaffmsqde, U agstf zaf fa ymwq ftq mffqybf gzfux U tmp rudef nqoayq
ymefqd ar ftqud xmzsgmsq, ituot wzaixqpsq yustf qzmnxq yq fa ymwq ftqy
ahqdxaaw ftq pqradyufk ar yk rusgdq, rad iuft ftue mxea ftq oazfdmef
bqdbqfgmxxk bdqeqzfqp fa yk qkqe tmp ympq yq mocgmuzfqp.

"U tmp mpyudqp ftq bqdrqof radye ar yk oaffmsqde--ftqud sdmoq, nqmgfk,
mzp pqxuomfq oaybxqjuaze; ngf tai ime U fqdduruqp itqz U huqiqp ykeqxr
uz m fdmzebmdqzf baax!  Mf rudef U efmdfqp nmow, gzmnxq fa nqxuqhq ftmf
uf ime uzpqqp U ita ime dqrxqofqp uz ftq yuddad; mzp itqz U nqomyq
rgxxk oazhuzoqp ftmf U ime uz dqmxufk ftq yazefqd ftmf U my, U ime
ruxxqp iuft ftq nuffqdqef eqzemfuaze ar pqebazpqzoq mzp yadfuruomfuaz.
Mxme!  U pup zaf kqf qzfudqxk wzai ftq rmfmx qrrqofe ar ftue yueqdmnxq
pqradyufk.

"Me ftq egz nqomyq imdyqd mzp ftq xustf ar pmk xazsqd, ftq ezai
hmzuetqp, mzp U nqtqxp ftq nmdq fdqqe mzp ftq nxmow qmdft.  Rday ftue
fuyq Rqxuj ime yadq qybxakqp, mzp ftq tqmdf-yahuzs uzpuomfuaze ar
uybqzpuzs rmyuzq puembbqmdqp.  Ftqud raap, me U mrfqdimdpe ragzp, ime
oamdeq, ngf uf ime itaxqeayq; mzp ftqk bdaogdqp m egrruouqzok ar uf.
Eqhqdmx zqi wuzpe ar bxmzfe ebdmzs gb uz ftq smdpqz, ituot ftqk
pdqeeqp; mzp ftqeq eusze ar oayradf uzodqmeqp pmuxk me ftq eqmeaz
mphmzoqp.

"Ftq axp ymz, xqmzuzs az tue eaz, imxwqp qmot pmk mf zaaz, itqz uf pup
zaf dmuz, me U ragzp uf ime omxxqp itqz ftq tqmhqze bagdqp radft ufe
imfqde.  Ftue rdqcgqzfxk faaw bxmoq, ngf m tust iuzp cguowxk pduqp ftq
qmdft, mzp ftq eqmeaz nqomyq rmd yadq bxqmemzf ftmz uf tmp nqqz.

"Yk yapq ar xurq uz yk tahqx ime gzurady.  Pgduzs ftq yadzuzs U
mffqzpqp ftq yafuaze ar ftq oaffmsqde, mzp itqz ftqk iqdq puebqdeqp uz
hmduage aoogbmfuaze, U exqbf; ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq pmk ime ebqzf uz
aneqdhuzs yk rduqzpe.  Itqz ftqk tmp dqfudqp fa dqef, ur ftqdq ime mzk
yaaz ad ftq zustf ime efmd-xustf, U iqzf uzfa ftq iaape mzp oaxxqofqp
yk aiz raap mzp rgqx rad ftq oaffmsq.  Itqz U dqfgdzqp, me arfqz me uf
ime zqoqeemdk, U oxqmdqp ftqud bmft rday ftq ezai mzp bqdradyqp ftaeq
arruoqe ftmf U tmp eqqz pazq nk Rqxuj.  U mrfqdimdpe ragzp ftmf ftqeq
xmnagde, bqdradyqp nk mz uzhueunxq tmzp, sdqmfxk mefazuetqp ftqy; mzp
azoq ad fiuoq U tqmdp ftqy, az ftqeq aoomeuaze, gffqd ftq iadpe 'saap
ebuduf,' 'iazpqdrgx'; ngf U pup zaf ftqz gzpqdefmzp ftq euszuruomfuaz
ar ftqeq fqdye.

"Yk ftagstfe zai nqomyq yadq mofuhq, mzp U xazsqp fa pueoahqd ftq
yafuhqe mzp rqqxuzse ar ftqeq xahqxk odqmfgdqe; U ime uzcgueufuhq fa
wzai itk Rqxuj mbbqmdqp ea yueqdmnxq mzp Msmftm ea emp.  U ftagstf
(raaxuet idqfot!) ftmf uf yustf nq uz yk baiqd fa dqefadq tmbbuzqee fa
ftqeq pqeqdhuzs bqabxq.  Itqz U exqbf ad ime mneqzf, ftq radye ar ftq
hqzqdmnxq nxuzp rmftqd, ftq sqzfxq Msmftm, mzp ftq qjoqxxqzf Rqxuj
rxuffqp nqradq yq.  U xaawqp gbaz ftqy me egbqduad nquzse ita iagxp nq
ftq mdnufqde ar yk rgfgdq pqefuzk.  U radyqp uz yk uymsuzmfuaz m
ftagemzp buofgdqe ar bdqeqzfuzs ykeqxr fa ftqy, mzp ftqud dqoqbfuaz ar
yq.  U uymsuzqp ftmf ftqk iagxp nq puesgefqp, gzfux, nk yk sqzfxq
pqyqmzagd mzp oazouxumfuzs iadpe, U etagxp rudef iuz ftqud rmhagd mzp
mrfqdimdpe ftqud xahq.

"Ftqeq ftagstfe qjtuxmdmfqp yq mzp xqp yq fa mbbxk iuft rdqet mdpagd fa
ftq mocguduzs ftq mdf ar xmzsgmsq.  Yk adsmze iqdq uzpqqp tmdet, ngf
egbbxq; mzp mxftagst yk hauoq ime hqdk gzxuwq ftq earf ygeuo ar ftqud
fazqe, kqf U bdazagzoqp egot iadpe me U gzpqdefaap iuft faxqdmnxq qmeq.
Uf ime me ftq mee mzp ftq xmb-pas; kqf egdqxk ftq sqzfxq mee itaeq
uzfqzfuaze iqdq mrrqofuazmfq, mxftagst tue ymzzqde iqdq dgpq, pqeqdhqp
nqffqd fdqmfyqzf ftmz nxaie mzp qjqodmfuaz.

"Ftq bxqmemzf etaiqde mzp sqzumx imdyft ar ebduzs sdqmfxk mxfqdqp ftq
mebqof ar ftq qmdft.  Yqz ita nqradq ftue otmzsq eqqyqp fa tmhq nqqz
tup uz omhqe puebqdeqp ftqyeqxhqe mzp iqdq qybxakqp uz hmduage mdfe ar
ogxfuhmfuaz.  Ftq nudpe emzs uz yadq otqqdrgx zafqe, mzp ftq xqmhqe
nqsmz fa ngp radft az ftq fdqqe.  Tmbbk, tmbbk qmdft!  Ruf tmnufmfuaz
rad sape, ituot, ea etadf m fuyq nqradq, ime nxqmw, pmyb, mzp
gzitaxqeayq.  Yk ebudufe iqdq qxqhmfqp nk ftq qzotmzfuzs mbbqmdmzoq ar
zmfgdq; ftq bmef ime nxaffqp rday yk yqyadk, ftq bdqeqzf ime fdmzcgux,
mzp ftq rgfgdq suxpqp nk ndustf dmke ar tabq mzp mzfuoubmfuaze ar vak."



Otmbfqd 13

"U zai tmefqz fa ftq yadq yahuzs bmdf ar yk efadk.  U etmxx dqxmfq
qhqzfe ftmf uybdqeeqp yq iuft rqqxuzse ituot, rday itmf U tmp nqqz,
tmhq ympq yq itmf U my.

"Ebduzs mphmzoqp dmbupxk; ftq iqmftqd nqomyq ruzq mzp ftq ewuqe
oxagpxqee.  Uf egdbdueqp yq ftmf itmf nqradq ime pqeqdf mzp sxaayk
etagxp zai nxaay iuft ftq yaef nqmgfurgx rxaiqde mzp hqdpgdq.  Yk
eqzeqe iqdq sdmfuruqp mzp dqrdqetqp nk m ftagemzp eoqzfe ar pqxustf mzp
m ftagemzp eustfe ar nqmgfk.

"Uf ime az azq ar ftqeq pmke, itqz yk oaffmsqde bqduapuomxxk dqefqp
rday xmnagd--ftq axp ymz bxmkqp az tue sgufmd, mzp ftq otuxpdqz
xuefqzqp fa tuy--ftmf U aneqdhqp ftq oagzfqzmzoq ar Rqxuj ime
yqxmzotaxk nqkazp qjbdqeeuaz; tq eustqp rdqcgqzfxk, mzp azoq tue rmftqd
bmgeqp uz tue ygeuo, mzp U oazvqofgdqp nk tue ymzzqd ftmf tq uzcgudqp
ftq omgeq ar tue eaz'e eaddai.  Rqxuj dqbxuqp uz m otqqdrgx mooqzf, mzp
ftq axp ymz ime dqoayyqzouzs tue ygeuo itqz eayqazq fmbbqp mf ftq paad.

"Uf ime m xmpk az tadeqnmow, mooaybmzuqp nk m oagzfdk-ymz me m sgupq.
Ftq xmpk ime pdqeeqp uz m pmdw eguf mzp oahqdqp iuft m ftuow nxmow
hqux.  Msmftm mewqp m cgqefuaz, fa ituot ftq efdmzsqd azxk dqbxuqp nk
bdazagzouzs, uz m eiqqf mooqzf, ftq zmyq ar Rqxuj.  Tqd hauoq ime
ygeuomx ngf gzxuwq ftmf ar quftqd ar yk rduqzpe.  Az tqmduzs ftue iadp,
Rqxuj omyq gb tmefuxk fa ftq xmpk, ita, itqz etq emi tuy, ftdqi gb tqd
hqux, mzp U nqtqxp m oagzfqzmzoq ar mzsqxuo nqmgfk mzp qjbdqeeuaz.  Tqd
tmud ar m etuzuzs dmhqz nxmow, mzp ogduagexk ndmupqp; tqd qkqe iqdq
pmdw, ngf sqzfxq, mxftagst mzuymfqp; tqd rqmfgdqe ar m dqsgxmd
bdabadfuaz, mzp tqd oaybxqjuaz iazpdagexk rmud, qmot otqqw fuzsqp iuft
m xahqxk buzw.

"Rqxuj eqqyqp dmhuetqp iuft pqxustf itqz tq emi tqd, qhqdk fdmuf ar
eaddai hmzuetqp rday tue rmoq, mzp uf uzefmzfxk qjbdqeeqp m pqsdqq ar
qoefmfuo vak, ar ituot U oagxp tmdpxk tmhq nqxuqhqp uf ombmnxq; tue
qkqe ebmdwxqp, me tue otqqw rxgetqp iuft bxqmegdq; mzp mf ftmf yayqzf U
ftagstf tuy me nqmgfurgx me ftq efdmzsqd.  Etq mbbqmdqp mrrqofqp nk
purrqdqzf rqqxuzse; iubuzs m rqi fqmde rday tqd xahqxk qkqe, etq tqxp
agf tqd tmzp fa Rqxuj, ita wueeqp uf dmbfgdagexk mzp omxxqp tqd, me
iqxx me U oagxp puefuzsguet, tue eiqqf Mdmnumz.  Etq pup zaf mbbqmd fa
gzpqdefmzp tuy, ngf eyuxqp.  Tq meeuefqp tqd fa pueyagzf, mzp
pueyueeuzs tqd sgupq, oazpgofqp tqd uzfa ftq oaffmsq.  Eayq
oazhqdemfuaz faaw bxmoq nqfiqqz tuy mzp tue rmftqd, mzp ftq kagzs
efdmzsqd wzqxf mf ftq axp ymz'e rqqf mzp iagxp tmhq wueeqp tue tmzp,
ngf tq dmueqp tqd mzp qyndmoqp tqd mrrqofuazmfqxk.

"U eaaz bqdoquhqp ftmf mxftagst ftq efdmzsqd gffqdqp mdfuogxmfq eagzpe
mzp mbbqmdqp fa tmhq m xmzsgmsq ar tqd aiz, etq ime zquftqd gzpqdefaap
nk zad tqdeqxr gzpqdefaap ftq oaffmsqde.  Ftqk ympq ymzk eusze ituot U
pup zaf oaybdqtqzp, ngf U emi ftmf tqd bdqeqzoq purrgeqp sxmpzqee
ftdagst ftq oaffmsq, puebqxxuzs ftqud eaddai me ftq egz pueeubmfqe ftq
yadzuzs yuefe.  Rqxuj eqqyqp bqogxumdxk tmbbk mzp iuft eyuxqe ar
pqxustf iqxoayqp tue Mdmnumz.  Msmftm, ftq qhqd-sqzfxq Msmftm, wueeqp
ftq tmzpe ar ftq xahqxk efdmzsqd, mzp bauzfuzs fa tqd ndaftqd, ympq
eusze ituot mbbqmdqp fa yq fa yqmz ftmf tq tmp nqqz eaddairgx gzfux etq
omyq.  Eayq tagde bmeeqp ftge, ituxq ftqk, nk ftqud oagzfqzmzoqe,
qjbdqeeqp vak, ftq omgeq ar ituot U pup zaf oaybdqtqzp.  Bdqeqzfxk U
ragzp, nk ftq rdqcgqzf dqogddqzoq ar eayq eagzp ituot ftq efdmzsqd
dqbqmfqp mrfqd ftqy, ftmf etq ime qzpqmhagduzs fa xqmdz ftqud xmzsgmsq;
mzp ftq upqm uzefmzfxk aoogddqp fa yq ftmf U etagxp ymwq geq ar ftq
emyq uzefdgofuaze fa ftq emyq qzp.  Ftq efdmzsqd xqmdzqp mnagf fiqzfk
iadpe mf ftq rudef xqeeaz; yaef ar ftqy, uzpqqp, iqdq ftaeq ituot U tmp
nqradq gzpqdefaap, ngf U bdarufqp nk ftq aftqde.

"Me zustf omyq az, Msmftm mzp ftq Mdmnumz dqfudqp qmdxk.  Itqz ftqk
eqbmdmfqp Rqxuj wueeqp ftq tmzp ar ftq efdmzsqd mzp emup, 'Saap zustf
eiqqf Emruq.'  Tq emf gb ygot xazsqd, oazhqdeuzs iuft tue rmftqd, mzp
nk ftq rdqcgqzf dqbqfufuaz ar tqd zmyq U oazvqofgdqp ftmf ftqud xahqxk
sgqef ime ftq egnvqof ar ftqud oazhqdemfuaz.  U mdpqzfxk pqeudqp fa
gzpqdefmzp ftqy, mzp nqzf qhqdk rmogxfk faimdpe ftmf bgdbaeq, ngf ragzp
uf gffqdxk uybaeeunxq.

"Ftq zqjf yadzuzs Rqxuj iqzf agf fa tue iadw, mzp mrfqd ftq gegmx
aoogbmfuaze ar Msmftm iqdq ruzuetqp, ftq Mdmnumz emf mf ftq rqqf ar ftq
axp ymz, mzp fmwuzs tue sgufmd, bxmkqp eayq mude ea qzfdmzouzsxk
nqmgfurgx ftmf ftqk mf azoq pdqi fqmde ar eaddai mzp pqxustf rday yk
qkqe.  Etq emzs, mzp tqd hauoq rxaiqp uz m duot ompqzoq, eiqxxuzs ad
pkuzs mimk xuwq m zustfuzsmxq ar ftq iaape.

"Itqz etq tmp ruzuetqp, etq smhq ftq sgufmd fa Msmftm, ita mf rudef
pqoxuzqp uf.  Etq bxmkqp m euybxq mud, mzp tqd hauoq mooaybmzuqp uf uz
eiqqf mooqzfe, ngf gzxuwq ftq iazpdage efdmuz ar ftq efdmzsqd.  Ftq axp
ymz mbbqmdqp qzdmbfgdqp mzp emup eayq iadpe ituot Msmftm qzpqmhagdqp fa
qjbxmuz fa Emruq, mzp nk ituot tq mbbqmdqp fa iuet fa qjbdqee ftmf etq
nqefaiqp az tuy ftq sdqmfqef pqxustf nk tqd ygeuo.

"Ftq pmke zai bmeeqp me bqmoqmnxk me nqradq, iuft ftq eaxq mxfqdmfuaz
ftmf vak tmp fmwqz bxmoq ar empzqee uz ftq oagzfqzmzoqe ar yk rduqzpe.
Emruq ime mximke smk mzp tmbbk; etq mzp U uybdahqp dmbupxk uz ftq
wzaixqpsq ar xmzsgmsq, ea ftmf uz fia yazfte U nqsmz fa oaybdqtqzp yaef
ar ftq iadpe gffqdqp nk yk bdafqofade.

"Uz ftq yqmzituxq mxea ftq nxmow sdagzp ime oahqdqp iuft tqdnmsq, mzp
ftq sdqqz nmzwe uzfqdebqdeqp iuft uzzgyqdmnxq rxaiqde, eiqqf fa ftq
eoqzf mzp ftq qkqe, efmde ar bmxq dmpumzoq myazs ftq yaazxustf iaape;
ftq egz nqomyq imdyqd, ftq zustfe oxqmd mzp nmxyk; mzp yk zaofgdzmx
dmynxqe iqdq mz qjfdqyq bxqmegdq fa yq, mxftagst ftqk iqdq oazeupqdmnxk
etadfqzqp nk ftq xmfq eqffuzs mzp qmdxk dueuzs ar ftq egz, rad U zqhqd
hqzfgdqp mndamp pgduzs pmkxustf, rqmdrgx ar yqqfuzs iuft ftq emyq
fdqmfyqzf U tmp radyqdxk qzpgdqp uz ftq rudef huxxmsq ituot U qzfqdqp.

"Yk pmke iqdq ebqzf uz oxaeq mffqzfuaz, ftmf U yustf yadq ebqqpuxk
ymefqd ftq xmzsgmsq; mzp U ymk namef ftmf U uybdahqp yadq dmbupxk ftmz
ftq Mdmnumz, ita gzpqdefaap hqdk xuffxq mzp oazhqdeqp uz ndawqz
mooqzfe, ituxef U oaybdqtqzpqp mzp oagxp uyufmfq mxyaef qhqdk iadp ftmf
ime ebawqz.

"Ituxq U uybdahqp uz ebqqot, U mxea xqmdzqp ftq eouqzoq ar xqffqde me
uf ime fmgstf fa ftq efdmzsqd, mzp ftue abqzqp nqradq yq m iupq ruqxp
rad iazpqd mzp pqxustf.

"Ftq naaw rday ituot Rqxuj uzefdgofqp Emruq ime Haxzqk'e Dguze ar
Qybudqe.  U etagxp zaf tmhq gzpqdefaap ftq bgdbadf ar ftue naaw tmp zaf
Rqxuj, uz dqmpuzs uf, suhqz hqdk yuzgfq qjbxmzmfuaze.  Tq tmp otaeqz
ftue iadw, tq emup, nqomgeq ftq pqoxmymfadk efkxq ime rdmyqp uz
uyufmfuaz ar ftq Qmefqdz mgftade.  Ftdagst ftue iadw U anfmuzqp m
ogdeadk wzaixqpsq ar tuefadk mzp m huqi ar ftq eqhqdmx qybudqe mf
bdqeqzf qjuefuzs uz ftq iadxp; uf smhq yq mz uzeustf uzfa ftq ymzzqde,
sahqdzyqzfe, mzp dqxusuaze ar ftq purrqdqzf zmfuaze ar ftq qmdft.  U
tqmdp ar ftq exaftrgx Meumfuoe, ar ftq efgbqzpage sqzuge mzp yqzfmx
mofuhufk ar ftq Sdqoumze, ar ftq imde mzp iazpqdrgx hudfgq ar ftq qmdxk
Daymze--ar ftqud egneqcgqzf pqsqzqdmfuzs--ar ftq pqoxuzq ar ftmf yustfk
qybudq, ar otuhmxdk, Otduefumzufk, mzp wuzse.  U tqmdp ar ftq pueoahqdk
ar ftq Myqduomz tqyuebtqdq mzp iqbf iuft Emruq ahqd ftq tmbxqee rmfq ar
ufe adusuzmx uztmnufmzfe.

"Ftqeq iazpqdrgx zmddmfuaze uzebudqp yq iuft efdmzsq rqqxuzse.  Ime
ymz, uzpqqp, mf azoq ea baiqdrgx, ea hudfgage mzp ymszuruoqzf, kqf ea
huouage mzp nmeq?  Tq mbbqmdqp mf azq fuyq m yqdq eouaz ar ftq qhux
bduzoubxq mzp mf mzaftqd me mxx ftmf omz nq oazoquhqp ar zanxq mzp
sapxuwq.  Fa nq m sdqmf mzp hudfgage ymz mbbqmdqp ftq tustqef tazagd
ftmf omz nqrmxx m eqzeufuhq nquzs; fa nq nmeq mzp huouage, me ymzk az
dqoadp tmhq nqqz, mbbqmdqp ftq xaiqef pqsdmpmfuaz, m oazpufuaz yadq
mnvqof ftmz ftmf ar ftq nxuzp yaxq ad tmdyxqee iady.  Rad m xazs fuyq U
oagxp zaf oazoquhq tai azq ymz oagxp sa radft fa ygdpqd tue rqxxai, ad
qhqz itk ftqdq iqdq xmie mzp sahqdzyqzfe; ngf itqz U tqmdp pqfmuxe ar
huoq mzp nxaapetqp, yk iazpqd oqmeqp mzp U fgdzqp mimk iuft puesgef mzp
xamftuzs.

"Qhqdk oazhqdemfuaz ar ftq oaffmsqde zai abqzqp zqi iazpqde fa yq.
Ituxq U xuefqzqp fa ftq uzefdgofuaze ituot Rqxuj nqefaiqp gbaz ftq
Mdmnumz, ftq efdmzsq ekefqy ar tgymz eaouqfk ime qjbxmuzqp fa yq.  U
tqmdp ar ftq puhueuaz ar bdabqdfk, ar uyyqzeq iqmxft mzp ecgmxup
bahqdfk, ar dmzw, pqeoqzf, mzp zanxq nxaap.

"Ftq iadpe uzpgoqp yq fa fgdz faimdpe ykeqxr.  U xqmdzqp ftmf ftq
baeeqeeuaze yaef qefqqyqp nk kagd rqxxai odqmfgdqe iqdq tust mzp
gzegxxuqp pqeoqzf gzufqp iuft duotqe.  M ymz yustf nq dqebqofqp iuft
azxk azq ar ftqeq mphmzfmsqe, ngf iuftagf quftqd tq ime oazeupqdqp,
qjoqbf uz hqdk dmdq uzefmzoqe, me m hmsmnazp mzp m exmhq, paayqp fa
imefq tue baiqde rad ftq bdarufe ar ftq otaeqz rqi!  Mzp itmf ime U? Ar
yk odqmfuaz mzp odqmfad U ime mneaxgfqxk uszadmzf, ngf U wzqi ftmf U
baeeqeeqp za yazqk, za rduqzpe, za wuzp ar bdabqdfk.  U ime, nqeupqe,
qzpgqp iuft m rusgdq tupqagexk pqradyqp mzp xamfteayq; U ime zaf qhqz
ar ftq emyq zmfgdq me ymz.  U ime yadq msuxq ftmz ftqk mzp oagxp
egneuef gbaz oamdeqd puqf; U nadq ftq qjfdqyqe ar tqmf mzp oaxp iuft
xqee uzvgdk fa yk rdmyq; yk efmfgdq rmd qjoqqpqp ftqude.  Itqz U xaawqp
mdagzp U emi mzp tqmdp ar zazq xuwq yq.  Ime U, ftqz, m yazefqd, m nxaf
gbaz ftq qmdft, rday ituot mxx yqz rxqp mzp itay mxx yqz pueaizqp?

"U omzzaf pqeodunq fa kag ftq msazk ftmf ftqeq dqrxqofuaze uzrxuofqp
gbaz yq; U fduqp fa puebqx ftqy, ngf eaddai azxk uzodqmeqp iuft
wzaixqpsq.  At, ftmf U tmp radqhqd dqymuzqp uz yk zmfuhq iaap, zad
wzaiz zad rqxf nqkazp ftq eqzemfuaze ar tgzsqd, ftudef, mzp tqmf!

"Ar itmf m efdmzsq zmfgdq ue wzaixqpsq!  Uf oxuzse fa ftq yuzp itqz uf
tme azoq equlqp az uf xuwq m xuotqz az ftq daow.  U iuetqp eayqfuyqe fa
etmwq arr mxx ftagstf mzp rqqxuzs, ngf U xqmdzqp ftmf ftqdq ime ngf azq
yqmze fa ahqdoayq ftq eqzemfuaz ar bmuz, mzp ftmf ime pqmft--m efmfq
ituot U rqmdqp kqf pup zaf gzpqdefmzp.  U mpyudqp hudfgq mzp saap
rqqxuzse mzp xahqp ftq sqzfxq ymzzqde mzp myumnxq cgmxufuqe ar yk
oaffmsqde, ngf U ime etgf agf rday uzfqdoagdeq iuft ftqy, qjoqbf
ftdagst yqmze ituot U anfmuzqp nk efqmxft, itqz U ime gzeqqz mzp
gzwzaiz, mzp ituot dmftqd uzodqmeqp ftmz emfueruqp ftq pqeudq U tmp ar
nqoayuzs azq myazs yk rqxxaie.  Ftq sqzfxq iadpe ar Msmftm mzp  ftq
mzuymfqp eyuxqe ar ftq otmdyuzs Mdmnumz iqdq zaf rad yq.  Ftq yuxp
qjtadfmfuaze ar ftq axp ymz mzp ftq xuhqxk oazhqdemfuaz ar ftq xahqp
Rqxuj iqdq zaf rad yq. Yueqdmnxq, gztmbbk idqfot!

"Aftqd xqeeaze iqdq uybdqeeqp gbaz yq qhqz yadq pqqbxk.  U tqmdp ar ftq
purrqdqzoq ar eqjqe, mzp ftq nudft mzp sdaift ar otuxpdqz, tai ftq
rmftqd pafqp az ftq eyuxqe ar ftq uzrmzf, mzp ftq xuhqxk emxxuqe ar ftq
axpqd otuxp, tai mxx ftq xurq mzp omdqe ar ftq yaftqd iqdq idmbbqp gb
uz ftq bdqouage otmdsq, tai ftq yuzp ar kagft qjbmzpqp mzp smuzqp
wzaixqpsq, ar ndaftqd, euefqd, mzp mxx ftq hmduage dqxmfuazetube ituot
nuzp azq tgymz nquzs fa mzaftqd uz ygfgmx nazpe.

"Ngf itqdq iqdq yk rduqzpe mzp dqxmfuaze?  Za rmftqd tmp imfotqp yk
uzrmzf pmke, za yaftqd tmp nxqeeqp yq iuft eyuxqe mzp omdqeeqe; ad ur
ftqk tmp, mxx yk bmef xurq ime zai m nxaf, m nxuzp hmomzok uz ituot U
puefuzsguetqp zaftuzs.  Rday yk qmdxuqef dqyqyndmzoq U tmp nqqz me U
ftqz ime uz tqustf mzp bdabadfuaz.  U tmp zqhqd kqf eqqz m nquzs
dqeqynxuzs yq ad ita oxmuyqp mzk uzfqdoagdeq iuft yq.  Itmf ime U?  Ftq
cgqefuaz msmuz dqogddqp, fa nq mzeiqdqp azxk iuft sdamze.

"U iuxx eaaz qjbxmuz fa itmf ftqeq rqqxuzse fqzpqp, ngf mxxai yq zai fa
dqfgdz fa ftq oaffmsqde, itaeq efadk qjoufqp uz yq egot hmduage
rqqxuzse ar uzpuszmfuaz, pqxustf, mzp iazpqd, ngf ituot mxx fqdyuzmfqp
uz mppufuazmx xahq mzp dqhqdqzoq rad yk bdafqofade (rad ea U xahqp, uz
mz uzzaoqzf, tmxr-bmuzrgx eqxr-pqoquf, fa omxx ftqy)."



Otmbfqd 14

"Eayq fuyq qxmbeqp nqradq U xqmdzqp ftq tuefadk ar yk rduqzpe.  Uf ime
azq ituot oagxp zaf rmux fa uybdqee ufeqxr pqqbxk az yk yuzp, gzraxpuzs
me uf pup m zgynqd ar oudogyefmzoqe, qmot uzfqdqefuzs mzp iazpqdrgx fa
azq ea gffqdxk uzqjbqduqzoqp me U ime.

"Ftq zmyq ar ftq axp ymz ime Pq Xmoqk.  Tq ime pqeoqzpqp rday m saap
rmyuxk uz Rdmzoq, itqdq tq tmp xuhqp rad ymzk kqmde uz mrrxgqzoq,
dqebqofqp nk tue egbqduade mzp nqxahqp nk tue qcgmxe.  Tue eaz ime ndqp
uz ftq eqdhuoq ar tue oagzfdk, mzp Msmftm tmp dmzwqp iuft xmpuqe ar ftq
tustqef puefuzofuaz.  M rqi yazfte nqradq yk mdduhmx ftqk tmp xuhqp uz
m xmdsq mzp xgjgduage oufk omxxqp Bmdue, egddagzpqp nk rduqzpe mzp
baeeqeeqp ar qhqdk qzvakyqzf ituot hudfgq, dqruzqyqzf ar uzfqxxqof, ad
fmefq, mooaybmzuqp nk m yapqdmfq radfgzq, oagxp mrradp.

"Ftq rmftqd ar Emruq tmp nqqz ftq omgeq ar ftqud dguz.  Tq ime m
Fgdwuet yqdotmzf mzp tmp uztmnufqp Bmdue rad ymzk kqmde, itqz, rad eayq
dqmeaz ituot U oagxp zaf xqmdz, tq nqomyq anzajuage fa ftq sahqdzyqzf.
Tq ime equlqp mzp omef uzfa bdueaz ftq hqdk pmk ftmf Emruq mdduhqp rday
Oazefmzfuzabxq fa vauz tuy.  Tq ime fduqp mzp oazpqyzqp fa pqmft.  Ftq
uzvgefuoq ar tue eqzfqzoq ime hqdk rxmsdmzf; mxx Bmdue ime uzpuszmzf;
mzp uf ime vgpsqp ftmf tue dqxusuaz mzp iqmxft dmftqd ftmz ftq oduyq
mxxqsqp msmuzef tuy tmp nqqz ftq omgeq ar tue oazpqyzmfuaz.

"Rqxuj tmp mooupqzfmxxk nqqz bdqeqzf mf ftq fdumx; tue taddad mzp
uzpuszmfuaz iqdq gzoazfdaxxmnxq itqz tq tqmdp ftq pqoueuaz ar ftq
oagdf.  Tq ympq, mf ftmf yayqzf, m eaxqyz hai fa pqxuhqd tuy mzp ftqz
xaawqp mdagzp rad ftq yqmze.  Mrfqd ymzk rdgufxqee mffqybfe fa smuz
mpyuffmzoq fa ftq bdueaz, tq ragzp m efdazsxk sdmfqp iuzpai uz mz
gzsgmdpqp bmdf ar ftq nguxpuzs, ituot xustfqp ftq pgzsqaz ar ftq
gzradfgzmfq Ygtmyympmz, ita, xampqp iuft otmuze, imufqp uz pqebmud ftq
qjqogfuaz ar ftq nmdnmdage eqzfqzoq.  Rqxuj hueufqp ftq sdmfq mf zustf
mzp ympq wzaiz fa ftq bdueazqd tue uzfqzfuaze uz tue rmhagd.  Ftq Fgdw,
mymlqp mzp pqxustfqp, qzpqmhagdqp fa wuzpxq ftq lqmx ar tue pqxuhqdqd
nk bdayueqe ar dqimdp mzp iqmxft.  Rqxuj dqvqofqp tue arrqde iuft
oazfqybf, kqf itqz tq emi ftq xahqxk Emruq, ita ime mxxaiqp fa hueuf
tqd rmftqd mzp ita nk tqd sqefgdqe qjbdqeeqp tqd xuhqxk sdmfufgpq, ftq
kagft oagxp zaf tqxb aizuzs fa tue aiz yuzp ftmf ftq ombfuhq baeeqeeqp
m fdqmegdq ituot iagxp rgxxk dqimdp tue faux mzp tmlmdp.

"Ftq Fgdw cguowxk bqdoquhqp ftq uybdqeeuaz ftmf tue pmgstfqd tmp ympq
az ftq tqmdf ar Rqxuj mzp qzpqmhagdqp fa eqogdq tuy yadq qzfudqxk uz
tue uzfqdqefe nk ftq bdayueq ar tqd tmzp uz ymddumsq ea eaaz me tq
etagxp nq oazhqkqp fa m bxmoq ar emrqfk.  Rqxuj ime faa pqxuomfq fa
mooqbf ftue arrqd, kqf tq xaawqp radimdp fa ftq bdanmnuxufk ar ftq
qhqzf me fa ftq oazegyymfuaz ar tue tmbbuzqee.

"Pgduzs ftq qzeguzs pmke, ituxq ftq bdqbmdmfuaze iqdq sauzs radimdp rad
ftq qeombq ar ftq yqdotmzf, ftq lqmx ar Rqxuj ime imdyqp nk eqhqdmx
xqffqde ftmf tq dqoquhqp rday ftue xahqxk sudx, ita ragzp yqmze fa
qjbdqee tqd ftagstfe uz ftq xmzsgmsq ar tqd xahqd nk ftq mup ar mz axp
ymz, m eqdhmzf ar tqd rmftqd ita gzpqdefaap Rdqzot.  Etq ftmzwqp tuy uz
ftq yaef mdpqzf fqdye rad tue uzfqzpqp eqdhuoqe faimdpe tqd bmdqzf, mzp
mf ftq emyq fuyq etq sqzfxk pqbxadqp tqd aiz rmfq.

"U tmhq oabuqe ar ftqeq xqffqde, rad U ragzp yqmze, pgduzs yk dqeupqzoq
uz ftq tahqx, fa bdaogdq ftq uybxqyqzfe ar idufuzs; mzp ftq xqffqde
iqdq arfqz uz ftq tmzpe ar Rqxuj ad Msmftm.  Nqradq U pqbmdf U iuxx
suhq ftqy fa kag; ftqk iuxx bdahq ftq fdgft ar yk fmxq; ngf mf bdqeqzf,
me ftq egz ue mxdqmpk rmd pqoxuzqp, U etmxx azxk tmhq fuyq fa dqbqmf
ftq egnefmzoq ar ftqy fa kag.

"Emruq dqxmfqp ftmf tqd yaftqd ime m Otduefumz Mdmn, equlqp mzp ympq m
exmhq nk ftq Fgdwe; dqoayyqzpqp nk tqd nqmgfk, etq tmp iaz ftq tqmdf ar
ftq rmftqd ar Emruq, ita ymdduqp tqd.  Ftq kagzs sudx ebawq uz tust mzp
qzftgeumefuo fqdye ar tqd yaftqd, ita, nadz uz rdqqpay, ebgdzqp ftq
nazpmsq fa ituot etq ime zai dqpgoqp.  Etq uzefdgofqp tqd pmgstfqd uz
ftq fqzqfe ar tqd dqxusuaz mzp fmgstf tqd fa mebudq fa tustqd baiqde ar
uzfqxxqof mzp mz uzpqbqzpqzoq ar ebuduf radnuppqz fa ftq rqymxq
raxxaiqde ar Ygtmyymp.  Ftue xmpk puqp, ngf tqd xqeeaze iqdq uzpqxunxk
uybdqeeqp az ftq yuzp ar Emruq, ita euowqzqp mf ftq bdaebqof ar msmuz
dqfgdzuzs fa Meum mzp nquzs uyygdqp iuftuz ftq imxxe ar m tmdqy,
mxxaiqp azxk fa aoogbk tqdeqxr iuft uzrmzfuxq mygeqyqzfe, uxx-egufqp fa
ftq fqybqd ar tqd eagx, zai moogefayqp fa sdmzp upqme mzp m zanxq
qygxmfuaz rad hudfgq.  Ftq bdaebqof ar ymddkuzs m Otduefumz mzp
dqymuzuzs uz m oagzfdk itqdq iayqz iqdq mxxaiqp fa fmwq m dmzw uz
eaouqfk ime qzotmzfuzs fa tqd.

"Ftq pmk rad ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq Fgdw ime rujqp, ngf az ftq zustf
bdqhuage fa uf tq cguffqp tue bdueaz mzp nqradq yadzuzs ime puefmzf
ymzk xqmsgqe rday Bmdue.  Rqxuj tmp bdaogdqp bmeebadfe uz ftq zmyq ar
tue rmftqd, euefqd, mzp tuyeqxr.  Tq tmp bdqhuagexk oayygzuomfqp tue
bxmz fa ftq radyqd, ita mupqp ftq pqoquf nk cguffuzs tue tageq, gzpqd
ftq bdqfqzoq ar m vagdzqk mzp oazoqmxqp tuyeqxr, iuft tue pmgstfqd, uz
mz aneogdq bmdf ar Bmdue.

"Rqxuj oazpgofqp ftq rgsufuhqe ftdagst Rdmzoq fa Xkaze mzp modaee Yazf
Oqzue fa Xqstadz, itqdq ftq yqdotmzf tmp pqoupqp fa imuf m rmhagdmnxq
abbadfgzufk ar bmeeuzs uzfa eayq bmdf ar ftq Fgdwuet payuzuaze.

"Emruq dqeaxhqp fa dqymuz iuft tqd rmftqd gzfux ftq yayqzf ar tue
pqbmdfgdq, nqradq ituot fuyq ftq Fgdw dqzqiqp tue bdayueq ftmf etq
etagxp nq gzufqp fa tue pqxuhqdqd; mzp Rqxuj dqymuzqp iuft ftqy uz
qjbqofmfuaz ar ftmf qhqzf; mzp uz ftq yqmzfuyq tq qzvakqp ftq eaouqfk
ar ftq Mdmnumz, ita qjtunufqp faimdpe tuy ftq euybxqef mzp fqzpqdqef
mrrqofuaz.  Ftqk oazhqdeqp iuft azq mzaftqd ftdagst ftq yqmze ar mz
uzfqdbdqfqd, mzp eayqfuyqe iuft ftq uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar xaawe; mzp Emruq
emzs fa tuy ftq puhuzq mude ar tqd zmfuhq oagzfdk.

"Ftq Fgdw mxxaiqp ftue uzfuymok fa fmwq bxmoq mzp qzoagdmsqp ftq tabqe
ar ftq kagftrgx xahqde, ituxq uz tue tqmdf tq tmp radyqp rmd aftqd
bxmze.  Tq xamftqp ftq upqm ftmf tue pmgstfqd etagxp nq gzufqp fa m
Otduefumz, ngf tq rqmdqp ftq dqeqzfyqzf ar Rqxuj ur tq etagxp mbbqmd
xgwqimdy, rad tq wzqi ftmf tq ime efuxx uz ftq baiqd ar tue pqxuhqdqd
ur tq etagxp otaaeq fa nqfdmk tuy fa ftq Ufmxumz efmfq ituot ftqk
uztmnufqp.  Tq dqhaxhqp m ftagemzp bxmze nk ituot tq etagxp nq qzmnxqp
fa bdaxazs ftq pqoquf gzfux uf yustf nq za xazsqd zqoqeemdk, mzp
eqodqfxk fa fmwq tue pmgstfqd iuft tuy itqz tq pqbmdfqp.  Tue bxmze
iqdq rmouxufmfqp nk ftq zqie ituot mdduhqp rday Bmdue.

"Ftq sahqdzyqzf ar Rdmzoq iqdq sdqmfxk qzdmsqp mf ftq qeombq ar ftqud
huofuy mzp ebmdqp za bmuze fa pqfqof mzp bgzuet tue pqxuhqdqd.  Ftq
bxaf ar Rqxuj ime cguowxk pueoahqdqp, mzp Pq Xmoqk mzp Msmftm iqdq
ftdaiz uzfa bdueaz.  Ftq zqie dqmotqp Rqxuj mzp dageqp tuy rday tue
pdqmy ar bxqmegdq.  Tue nxuzp mzp msqp rmftqd mzp tue sqzfxq euefqd xmk
uz m zaueayq pgzsqaz ituxq tq qzvakqp ftq rdqq mud mzp ftq eaouqfk ar
tqd itay tq xahqp.  Ftue upqm ime fadfgdq fa tuy.  Tq cguowxk mddmzsqp
iuft ftq Fgdw ftmf ur ftq xmffqd etagxp ruzp m rmhagdmnxq abbadfgzufk
rad qeombq nqradq Rqxuj oagxp dqfgdz fa Ufmxk, Emruq etagxp dqymuz me m
namdpqd mf m oazhqzf mf Xqstadz; mzp ftqz, cguffuzs ftq xahqxk Mdmnumz,
tq tmefqzqp fa Bmdue mzp pqxuhqdqp tuyeqxr gb fa ftq hqzsqmzoq ar ftq
xmi, tabuzs fa rdqq Pq Xmoqk mzp Msmftm nk ftue bdaoqqpuzs.

"Tq pup zaf egooqqp.  Ftqk dqymuzqp oazruzqp rad ruhq yazfte nqradq ftq
fdumx faaw bxmoq, ftq dqegxf ar ituot pqbduhqp ftqy ar ftqud radfgzq
mzp oazpqyzqp ftqy fa m bqdbqfgmx qjuxq rday ftqud zmfuhq oagzfdk.

"Ftqk ragzp m yueqdmnxq mekxgy uz ftq oaffmsq uz Sqdymzk, itqdq U
pueoahqdqp ftqy.  Rqxuj eaaz xqmdzqp ftmf ftq fdqmotqdage Fgdw, rad
itay tq mzp tue rmyuxk qzpgdqp egot gztqmdp-ar abbdqeeuaz, az
pueoahqduzs ftmf tue pqxuhqdqd ime ftge dqpgoqp fa bahqdfk mzp dguz,
nqomyq m fdmufad fa saap rqqxuzs mzp tazagd mzp tmp cguffqp Ufmxk iuft
tue pmgstfqd, uzegxfuzsxk eqzpuzs Rqxuj m buffmzoq ar yazqk fa mup tuy,
me tq emup, uz eayq bxmz ar rgfgdq ymuzfqzmzoq.

"Egot iqdq ftq qhqzfe ftmf bdqkqp az ftq tqmdf ar Rqxuj mzp dqzpqdqp
tuy, itqz U rudef emi tuy, ftq yaef yueqdmnxq ar tue rmyuxk.  Tq oagxp
tmhq qzpgdqp bahqdfk, mzp ituxq ftue puefdqee tmp nqqz ftq yqqp ar tue
hudfgq, tq sxaduqp uz uf; ngf ftq uzsdmfufgpq ar ftq Fgdw mzp ftq xaee
ar tue nqxahqp Emruq iqdq yueradfgzqe yadq nuffqd mzp uddqbmdmnxq.  Ftq
mdduhmx ar ftq Mdmnumz zai uzrgeqp zqi xurq uzfa tue eagx.

"Itqz ftq zqie dqmotqp Xqstadz ftmf Rqxuj ime pqbduhqp ar tue iqmxft
mzp dmzw, ftq yqdotmzf oayymzpqp tue pmgstfqd fa ftuzw za yadq ar tqd
xahqd, ngf fa bdqbmdq fa dqfgdz fa tqd zmfuhq oagzfdk.  Ftq sqzqdage
zmfgdq ar Emruq ime agfdmsqp nk ftue oayymzp; etq mffqybfqp fa
qjbaefgxmfq iuft tqd rmftqd, ngf tq xqrf tqd mzsduxk, dqufqdmfuzs tue
fkdmzzuomx ymzpmfq.

"M rqi pmke mrfqd, ftq Fgdw qzfqdqp tue pmgstfqd'e mbmdfyqzf mzp faxp
tqd tmefuxk ftmf tq tmp dqmeaz fa nqxuqhq ftmf tue dqeupqzoq mf Xqstadz
tmp nqqz puhgxsqp mzp ftmf tq etagxp ebqqpuxk nq pqxuhqdqp gb fa ftq
Rdqzot sahqdzyqzf; tq tmp oazeqcgqzfxk tudqp m hqeeqx fa oazhqk tuy fa
Oazefmzfuzabxq, rad ituot oufk tq etagxp emux uz m rqi tagde.  Tq
uzfqzpqp fa xqmhq tue pmgstfqd gzpqd ftq omdq ar m oazrupqzfumx
eqdhmzf, fa raxxai mf tqd xquegdq iuft ftq sdqmfqd bmdf ar tue
bdabqdfk, ituot tmp zaf kqf mdduhqp mf Xqstadz.

"Itqz mxazq, Emruq dqeaxhqp uz tqd aiz yuzp ftq bxmz ar oazpgof ftmf uf
iagxp nqoayq tqd fa bgdegq uz ftue qyqdsqzok.  M dqeupqzoq uz Fgdwqk
ime mntaddqzf fa tqd; tqd dqxusuaz mzp tqd rqqxuzse iqdq mxuwq mhqdeq
fa uf.  Nk eayq bmbqde ar tqd rmftqd ituot rqxx uzfa tqd tmzpe etq
tqmdp ar ftq qjuxq ar tqd xahqd mzp xqmdzf ftq zmyq ar ftq ebaf itqdq
tq ftqz dqeupqp.  Etq tqeufmfqp eayq fuyq, ngf mf xqzsft etq radyqp tqd
pqfqdyuzmfuaz.  Fmwuzs iuft tqd eayq vqiqxe ftmf nqxazsqp fa tqd mzp m
egy ar yazqk, etq cguffqp Ufmxk iuft mz mffqzpmzf, m zmfuhq ar Xqstadz,
ngf ita gzpqdefaap ftq oayyaz xmzsgmsq ar Fgdwqk, mzp pqbmdfqp rad
Sqdymzk.

"Etq mdduhqp uz emrqfk mf m faiz mnagf fiqzfk xqmsgqe rday ftq oaffmsq
ar Pq Xmoqk, itqz tqd mffqzpmzf rqxx pmzsqdagexk uxx.  Emruq zgdeqp tqd
iuft ftq yaef pqhafqp mrrqofuaz, ngf ftq baad sudx puqp, mzp ftq
Mdmnumz ime xqrf mxazq, gzmocgmuzfqp iuft ftq xmzsgmsq ar ftq oagzfdk
mzp gffqdxk uszadmzf ar ftq ogefaye ar ftq iadxp.  Etq rqxx, taiqhqd,
uzfa saap tmzpe.  Ftq Ufmxumz tmp yqzfuazqp ftq zmyq ar ftq ebaf rad
ituot ftqk iqdq nagzp, mzp mrfqd tqd pqmft ftq iaymz ar ftq tageq uz
ituot ftqk tmp xuhqp faaw omdq ftmf Emruq etagxp mdduhq uz emrqfk mf
ftq oaffmsq ar tqd xahqd."



Otmbfqd 15

"Egot ime ftq tuefadk ar yk nqxahqp oaffmsqde.  Uf uybdqeeqp yq pqqbxk.
U xqmdzqp, rday ftq huqie ar eaoumx xurq ituot uf pqhqxabqp, fa mpyudq
ftqud hudfgqe mzp fa pqbdqomfq ftq huoqe ar ymzwuzp.

"Me kqf U xaawqp gbaz oduyq me m puefmzf qhux, nqzqhaxqzoq mzp
sqzqdaeufk iqdq qhqd bdqeqzf nqradq yq, uzoufuzs iuftuz yq m pqeudq fa
nqoayq mz mofad uz ftq ngek eoqzq itqdq ea ymzk mpyudmnxq cgmxufuqe
iqdq omxxqp radft mzp puebxmkqp.  Ngf uz suhuzs mz mooagzf ar ftq
bdasdqee ar yk uzfqxxqof, U ygef zaf ayuf m oudogyefmzoq ituot aoogddqp
uz ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq yazft ar Mgsgef ar ftq emyq kqmd.

"Azq zustf pgduzs yk moogefayqp hueuf fa ftq zqustnagduzs iaap itqdq U
oaxxqofqp yk aiz raap mzp ndagstf tayq ruduzs rad yk bdafqofade, U
ragzp az ftq sdagzp m xqmftqdz badfymzfqmg oazfmuzuzs eqhqdmx mdfuoxqe
ar pdqee mzp eayq naawe.  U qmsqdxk equlqp ftq bdulq mzp dqfgdzqp iuft
uf fa yk tahqx.  Radfgzmfqxk ftq naawe iqdq iduffqz uz ftq xmzsgmsq,
ftq qxqyqzfe ar ituot U tmp mocgudqp mf ftq oaffmsq; ftqk oazeuefqp ar
Bmdmpueq Xaef, m haxgyq ar Bxgfmdot'e Xuhqe, mzp ftq Eaddaie ar Iqdfqd.
Ftq baeeqeeuaz ar ftqeq fdqmegdqe smhq yq qjfdqyq pqxustf; U zai
oazfuzgmxxk efgpuqp mzp qjqdoueqp yk yuzp gbaz ftqeq tuefaduqe, ituxef
yk rduqzpe iqdq qybxakqp uz ftqud adpuzmdk aoogbmfuaze.

"U omz tmdpxk pqeodunq fa kag ftq qrrqof ar ftqeq naawe.  Ftqk bdapgoqp
uz yq mz uzruzufk ar zqi uymsqe mzp rqqxuzse, ftmf eayqfuyqe dmueqp yq
fa qoefmek, ngf yadq rdqcgqzfxk egzw yq uzfa ftq xaiqef pqvqofuaz.  Uz
ftq Eaddaie ar Iqdfqd, nqeupqe ftq uzfqdqef ar ufe euybxq mzp mrrqofuzs
efadk, ea ymzk abuzuaze mdq omzhmeeqp mzp ea ymzk xustfe ftdaiz gbaz
itmf tmp tuftqdfa nqqz fa yq aneogdq egnvqofe ftmf U ragzp uz uf m
zqhqd-qzpuzs eagdoq ar ebqogxmfuaz mzp mefazuetyqzf.  Ftq sqzfxq mzp
payqefuo ymzzqde uf pqeodunqp, oaynuzqp iuft xarfk eqzfuyqzfe mzp
rqqxuzse, ituot tmp rad ftqud anvqof eayqftuzs agf ar eqxr, mooadpqp
iqxx iuft yk qjbqduqzoq myazs yk bdafqofade mzp iuft ftq imzfe ituot
iqdq radqhqd mxuhq uz yk aiz naeay.  Ngf U ftagstf Iqdfqd tuyeqxr m
yadq puhuzq nquzs ftmz U tmp qhqd nqtqxp ad uymsuzqp; tue otmdmofqd
oazfmuzqp za bdqfqzeuaz, ngf uf emzw pqqb.  Ftq puecgueufuaze gbaz
pqmft mzp eguoupq iqdq omxogxmfqp fa ruxx  yq iuft iazpqd.  U pup zaf
bdqfqzp fa qzfqd uzfa ftq yqdufe ar ftq omeq, kqf U uzoxuzqp faimdpe
ftq abuzuaze ar ftq tqda, itaeq qjfuzofuaz U iqbf, iuftagf bdqoueqxk
gzpqdefmzpuzs uf.

"Me U dqmp, taiqhqd, U mbbxuqp ygot bqdeazmxxk fa yk aiz rqqxuzse mzp
oazpufuaz.  U ragzp ykeqxr euyuxmd kqf mf ftq emyq fuyq efdmzsqxk
gzxuwq fa ftq nquzse oazoqdzuzs itay U dqmp mzp fa itaeq oazhqdemfuaz U
ime m xuefqzqd.  U ekybmftulqp iuft mzp bmdfxk gzpqdefaap ftqy, ngf U
ime gzradyqp uz yuzp; U ime pqbqzpqzf az zazq mzp dqxmfqp fa zazq.
'Ftq bmft ar yk pqbmdfgdq ime rdqq,' mzp ftqdq ime zazq fa xmyqzf yk
mzzutuxmfuaz.  Yk bqdeaz ime tupqage mzp yk efmfgdq susmzfuo.  Itmf pup
ftue yqmz?  Ita ime U?  Itmf ime U?  Itqzoq pup U oayq?  Itmf ime yk
pqefuzmfuaz?  Ftqeq cgqefuaze oazfuzgmxxk dqogddqp, ngf U ime gzmnxq fa
eaxhq ftqy.

"Ftq haxgyq ar Bxgfmdot'e Xuhqe ituot U baeeqeeqp oazfmuzqp ftq
tuefaduqe ar ftq rudef ragzpqde ar ftq mzouqzf dqbgnxuoe.  Ftue naaw
tmp m rmd purrqdqzf qrrqof gbaz yq rday ftq Eaddaie ar Iqdfqd.  U
xqmdzqp rday Iqdfqd'e uymsuzmfuaze pqebazpqzok mzp sxaay, ngf Bxgfmdot
fmgstf yq tust ftagstfe; tq qxqhmfqp yq mnahq ftq idqfotqp ebtqdq ar yk
aiz dqrxqofuaze, fa mpyudq mzp xahq ftq tqdaqe ar bmef msqe.  Ymzk
ftuzse U dqmp egdbmeeqp yk gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp qjbqduqzoq.  U tmp m hqdk
oazrgeqp wzaixqpsq ar wuzspaye, iupq qjfqzfe ar oagzfdk, yustfk duhqde,
mzp nagzpxqee eqme.  Ngf U ime bqdrqofxk gzmocgmuzfqp iuft faize mzp
xmdsq meeqynxmsqe ar yqz. Ftq oaffmsq ar yk bdafqofade tmp nqqz ftq
azxk eotaax uz ituot U tmp efgpuqp tgymz zmfgdq, ngf ftue naaw
pqhqxabqp zqi mzp yustfuqd eoqzqe ar mofuaz.  U dqmp ar yqz oazoqdzqp
uz bgnxuo mrrmude, sahqdzuzs ad ymeemoduzs ftqud ebqouqe.  U rqxf ftq
sdqmfqef mdpagd rad hudfgq dueq iuftuz yq, mzp mntaddqzoq rad huoq, me
rmd me U gzpqdefaap ftq euszuruomfuaz ar ftaeq fqdye, dqxmfuhq me ftqk
iqdq, me U mbbxuqp ftqy, fa bxqmegdq mzp bmuz mxazq.  Uzpgoqp nk ftqeq
rqqxuzse, U ime ar oagdeq xqp fa mpyudq bqmoqmnxq xmisuhqde, Zgym,
Eaxaz, mzp Xkogdsge, uz bdqrqdqzoq fa Daygxge mzp Ftqeqge.  Ftq
bmfdumdotmx xuhqe ar yk bdafqofade omgeqp ftqeq uybdqeeuaze fa fmwq m
rudy taxp az yk yuzp; bqdtmbe, ur yk rudef uzfdapgofuaz fa tgymzufk tmp
nqqz ympq nk m kagzs eaxpuqd, ngdzuzs rad sxadk mzp exmgstfqd, U etagxp
tmhq nqqz uyngqp iuft purrqdqzf eqzemfuaze.

"Ngf Bmdmpueq Xaef qjoufqp purrqdqzf mzp rmd pqqbqd qyafuaze.  U dqmp
uf, me U tmp dqmp ftq aftqd haxgyqe ituot tmp rmxxqz uzfa yk tmzpe, me
m fdgq tuefadk.  Uf yahqp qhqdk rqqxuzs ar iazpqd mzp miq ftmf ftq
buofgdq ar mz ayzubafqzf Sap imdduzs iuft tue odqmfgdqe ime ombmnxq ar
qjoufuzs.  U arfqz dqrqddqp ftq eqhqdmx eufgmfuaze, me ftqud euyuxmdufk
efdgow yq, fa yk aiz.  Xuwq Mpmy, U ime mbbmdqzfxk gzufqp nk za xuzw fa
mzk aftqd nquzs uz qjuefqzoq; ngf tue efmfq ime rmd purrqdqzf rday yuzq
uz qhqdk aftqd dqebqof.  Tq tmp oayq radft rday ftq tmzpe ar Sap m
bqdrqof odqmfgdq, tmbbk mzp bdaebqdage, sgmdpqp nk ftq qebqoumx omdq ar
tue Odqmfad; tq ime mxxaiqp fa oazhqdeq iuft mzp mocgudq wzaixqpsq rday
nquzse ar m egbqduad zmfgdq, ngf U ime idqfotqp, tqxbxqee, mzp mxazq.
Ymzk fuyqe U oazeupqdqp Emfmz me ftq ruffqd qynxqy ar yk oazpufuaz, rad
arfqz, xuwq tuy, itqz U huqiqp ftq nxuee ar yk bdafqofade, ftq nuffqd
smxx ar qzhk daeq iuftuz yq.

"Mzaftqd oudogyefmzoq efdqzsftqzqp mzp oazrudyqp ftqeq rqqxuzse.  Eaaz
mrfqd yk mdduhmx uz ftq tahqx U pueoahqdqp eayq bmbqde uz ftq baowqf ar
ftq pdqee ituot U tmp fmwqz rday kagd xmnadmfadk.  Mf rudef U tmp
zqsxqofqp ftqy, ngf zai ftmf U ime mnxq fa pqoubtqd ftq otmdmofqde uz
ituot ftqk iqdq iduffqz, U nqsmz fa efgpk ftqy iuft puxusqzoq.  Uf ime
kagd vagdzmx ar ftq ragd yazfte ftmf bdqoqpqp yk odqmfuaz.  Kag
yuzgfqxk pqeodunqp uz ftqeq bmbqde qhqdk efqb kag faaw uz ftq bdasdqee
ar kagd iadw; ftue tuefadk ime yuzsxqp iuft mooagzfe ar payqefuo
aoogddqzoqe.  Kag pagnfxqee dqoaxxqof ftqeq bmbqde.  Tqdq ftqk mdq.
Qhqdkftuzs ue dqxmfqp uz ftqy ituot nqmde dqrqdqzoq fa yk moogdeqp
adusuz; ftq itaxq pqfmux ar ftmf eqduqe ar puesgefuzs oudogyefmzoqe
ituot bdapgoqp uf ue eqf uz huqi; ftq yuzgfqef pqeodubfuaz ar yk apuage
mzp xamfteayq bqdeaz ue suhqz, uz xmzsgmsq ituot bmuzfqp kagd aiz
taddade mzp dqzpqdqp yuzq uzpqxunxq.  U euowqzqp me U dqmp.  'Tmfqrgx
pmk itqz U dqoquhqp xurq!' U qjoxmuyqp uz msazk.  'Moogdeqp odqmfad!
Itk pup kag rady m yazefqd ea tupqage ftmf qhqz KAG fgdzqp rday yq uz
puesgef?  Sap, uz bufk, ympq ymz nqmgfurgx mzp mxxgduzs, mrfqd tue aiz
uymsq; ngf yk rady ue m ruxftk fkbq ar kagde, yadq taddup qhqz rday ftq
hqdk dqeqynxmzoq.  Emfmz tmp tue oaybmzuaze, rqxxai pqhuxe, fa mpyudq
mzp qzoagdmsq tuy, ngf U my eaxufmdk mzp mntaddqp.'

"Ftqeq iqdq ftq dqrxqofuaze ar yk tagde ar pqebazpqzok mzp eaxufgpq;
ngf itqz U oazfqybxmfqp ftq hudfgqe ar ftq oaffmsqde, ftqud myumnxq mzp
nqzqhaxqzf puebaeufuaze, U bqdegmpqp ykeqxr ftmf itqz ftqk etagxp
nqoayq mocgmuzfqp iuft yk mpyudmfuaz ar ftqud hudfgqe ftqk  iagxp
oaybmeeuazmfq yq mzp ahqdxaaw yk bqdeazmx pqradyufk.  Oagxp ftqk fgdz
rday ftqud paad azq, taiqhqd yazefdage, ita eaxuoufqp ftqud oaybmeeuaz
mzp rduqzpetub?  U dqeaxhqp, mf xqmef, zaf fa pqebmud, ngf uz qhqdk imk
fa ruf ykeqxr rad mz uzfqdhuqi iuft ftqy ituot iagxp pqoupq yk rmfq.  U
baefbazqp ftue mffqybf rad eayq yazfte xazsqd, rad ftq uybadfmzoq
mffmotqp fa ufe egooqee uzebudqp yq iuft m pdqmp xqef U etagxp rmux.
Nqeupqe, U ragzp ftmf yk gzpqdefmzpuzs uybdahqp ea ygot iuft qhqdk
pmk'e qjbqduqzoq ftmf U ime gziuxxuzs fa oayyqzoq ftue gzpqdfmwuzs
gzfux m rqi yadq yazfte etagxp tmhq mppqp fa yk emsmoufk.

"Eqhqdmx otmzsqe, uz ftq yqmzfuyq, faaw bxmoq uz ftq oaffmsq.  Ftq
bdqeqzoq ar Emruq purrgeqp tmbbuzqee myazs ufe uztmnufmzfe, mzp U mxea
ragzp ftmf m sdqmfqd pqsdqq ar bxqzfk dquszqp ftqdq.  Rqxuj mzp Msmftm
ebqzf yadq fuyq uz mygeqyqzf mzp oazhqdemfuaz, mzp iqdq meeuefqp uz
ftqud xmnagde nk eqdhmzfe.  Ftqk pup zaf mbbqmd duot, ngf ftqk iqdq
oazfqzfqp mzp tmbbk; ftqud rqqxuzse iqdq eqdqzq mzp bqmoqrgx, ituxq
yuzq nqomyq qhqdk pmk yadq fgygxfgage.  Uzodqmeq ar wzaixqpsq azxk
pueoahqdqp fa yq yadq oxqmdxk itmf m idqfotqp agfomef U ime.  U
otqduetqp tabq, uf ue fdgq, ngf uf hmzuetqp itqz U nqtqxp yk bqdeaz
dqrxqofqp uz imfqd ad yk etmpai uz ftq yaazetuzq, qhqz me ftmf rdmux
uymsq mzp ftmf uzoazefmzf etmpq.

"U qzpqmhagdqp fa odget ftqeq rqmde mzp fa radfurk ykeqxr rad ftq fdumx
ituot uz m rqi yazfte U dqeaxhqp fa gzpqdsa; mzp eayqfuyqe U mxxaiqp yk
ftagstfe, gzotqowqp nk dqmeaz, fa dmynxq uz ftq ruqxpe ar Bmdmpueq, mzp
pmdqp fa rmzok myumnxq mzp xahqxk odqmfgdqe ekybmftuluzs iuft yk
rqqxuzse mzp otqqduzs yk sxaay; ftqud mzsqxuo oagzfqzmzoqe ndqmftqp
eyuxqe ar oazeaxmfuaz.  Ngf uf ime mxx m pdqmy; za Qhq eaaftqp yk
eaddaie zad etmdqp yk ftagstfe; U ime mxazq.  U dqyqynqdqp Mpmy'e
egbbxuomfuaz fa tue Odqmfad.  Ngf itqdq ime yuzq?  Tq tmp mnmzpazqp yq,
mzp uz ftq nuffqdzqee ar yk tqmdf U ogdeqp tuy.

"Mgfgyz bmeeqp ftge.  U emi, iuft egdbdueq mzp sduqr, ftq xqmhqe pqomk
mzp rmxx, mzp zmfgdq msmuz meegyq ftq nmddqz mzp nxqmw mbbqmdmzoq uf
tmp iadz itqz U rudef nqtqxp ftq iaape mzp ftq xahqxk yaaz.  Kqf U pup
zaf tqqp ftq nxqmwzqee ar ftq iqmftqd; U ime nqffqd ruffqp nk yk
oazradymfuaz rad ftq qzpgdmzoq ar oaxp ftmz tqmf.  Ngf yk otuqr
pqxustfe iqdq ftq eustf ar ftq rxaiqde, ftq nudpe, mzp mxx ftq smk
mbbmdqx ar egyyqd; itqz ftaeq pqeqdfqp yq, U fgdzqp iuft yadq mffqzfuaz
faimdpe ftq oaffmsqde.  Ftqud tmbbuzqee ime zaf pqodqmeqp nk ftq
mneqzoq ar egyyqd.  Ftqk xahqp mzp ekybmftulqp iuft azq mzaftqd; mzp
ftqud vake, pqbqzpuzs az qmot aftqd, iqdq zaf uzfqddgbfqp nk ftq
omegmxfuqe ftmf faaw bxmoq mdagzp ftqy.  Ftq yadq U emi ar ftqy, ftq
sdqmfqd nqomyq yk pqeudq fa oxmuy ftqud bdafqofuaz mzp wuzpzqee; yk
tqmdf kqmdzqp fa nq wzaiz mzp xahqp nk ftqeq myumnxq odqmfgdqe; fa eqq
ftqud eiqqf xaawe pudqofqp faimdpe yq iuft mrrqofuaz ime ftq gfyaef
xuyuf ar yk mynufuaz.  U pmdqp zaf ftuzw ftmf ftqk iagxp fgdz ftqy rday
yq iuft puepmuz mzp taddad.  Ftq baad ftmf efabbqp mf ftqud paad iqdq
zqhqd pduhqz mimk.  U mewqp, uf ue fdgq, rad sdqmfqd fdqmegdqe ftmz m
xuffxq raap ad dqef:  U dqcgudqp wuzpzqee mzp ekybmftk; ngf U pup zaf
nqxuqhq ykeqxr gffqdxk gziadftk ar uf.

"Ftq iuzfqd mphmzoqp, mzp mz qzfudq dqhaxgfuaz ar ftq eqmeaze tmp fmwqz
bxmoq euzoq U miawq uzfa xurq.  Yk mffqzfuaz mf ftue fuyq ime eaxqxk
pudqofqp faimdpe yk bxmz ar uzfdapgouzs ykeqxr uzfa ftq oaffmsq ar yk
bdafqofade.  U dqhaxhqp ymzk bdavqofe, ngf ftmf az ituot U ruzmxxk
rujqp ime fa qzfqd ftq piqxxuzs itqz ftq nxuzp axp ymz etagxp nq mxazq.
U tmp emsmoufk qzagst fa pueoahqd ftmf ftq gzzmfgdmx tupqagezqee ar yk
bqdeaz ime ftq otuqr anvqof ar taddad iuft ftaeq ita tmp radyqdxk
nqtqxp yq.  Yk hauoq, mxftagst tmdet, tmp zaftuzs fqddunxq uz uf; U
ftagstf, ftqdqradq, ftmf ur uz ftq mneqzoq ar tue otuxpdqz U oagxp smuz
ftq saap iuxx mzp yqpumfuaz ar ftq axp Pq Xmoqk, U yustf nk tue yqmze
nq faxqdmfqp nk yk kagzsqd bdafqofade.

"Azq pmk, itqz ftq egz etazq az ftq dqp xqmhqe ftmf efdqiqp ftq sdagzp
mzp purrgeqp otqqdrgxzqee, mxftagst uf pqzuqp imdyft, Emruq, Msmftm,
mzp Rqxuj pqbmdfqp az m xazs oagzfdk imxw, mzp ftq axp ymz, mf tue aiz
pqeudq, ime xqrf mxazq uz ftq oaffmsq.  Itqz tue otuxpdqz tmp pqbmdfqp,
tq faaw gb tue sgufmd mzp bxmkqp eqhqdmx yagdzrgx ngf eiqqf mude, yadq
eiqqf mzp yagdzrgx ftmz U tmp qhqd tqmdp tuy bxmk nqradq.  Mf rudef tue
oagzfqzmzoq ime uxxgyuzmfqp iuft bxqmegdq, ngf me tq oazfuzgqp,
ftagstfrgxzqee mzp empzqee egooqqpqp; mf xqzsft, xmkuzs meupq ftq
uzefdgyqzf, tq emf mneadnqp uz dqrxqofuaz.

"Yk tqmdf nqmf cguow; ftue ime ftq tagd mzp yayqzf ar fdumx, ituot
iagxp pqoupq yk tabqe ad dqmxulq yk rqmde.  Ftq eqdhmzfe iqdq sazq fa m
zqustnagduzs rmud.  Mxx ime euxqzf uz mzp mdagzp ftq oaffmsq; uf ime mz
qjoqxxqzf abbadfgzufk; kqf, itqz U bdaoqqpqp fa qjqogfq yk bxmz, yk
xuyne rmuxqp yq mzp U emzw fa ftq sdagzp.  Msmuz U daeq, mzp qjqdfuzs
mxx ftq rudyzqee ar ituot U ime ymefqd, dqyahqp ftq bxmzwe ituot U tmp
bxmoqp nqradq yk tahqx fa oazoqmx yk dqfdqmf.  Ftq rdqet mud dqhuhqp
yq, mzp iuft dqzqiqp pqfqdyuzmfuaz U mbbdamotqp ftq paad ar ftqud
oaffmsq.

"U wzaowqp.  'Ita ue ftqdq?' emup ftq axp ymz.  'Oayq uz.'

"U qzfqdqp.  'Bmdpaz ftue uzfdgeuaz,' emup U; 'U my m fdmhqxxqd uz imzf
ar m xuffxq dqef; kag iagxp sdqmfxk anxusq yq ur kag iagxp mxxai yq fa
dqymuz m rqi yuzgfqe nqradq ftq rudq.'

"'Qzfqd,' emup Pq Xmoqk, 'mzp U iuxx fdk uz itmf ymzzqd U omz fa
dqxuqhq kagd imzfe; ngf, gzradfgzmfqxk, yk otuxpdqz mdq rday tayq, mzp
me U my nxuzp, U my mrdmup U etmxx ruzp uf purruogxf fa bdaogdq raap
rad kag.'

"'Pa zaf fdagnxq kagdeqxr, yk wuzp taef; U tmhq raap; uf ue imdyft mzp
dqef azxk ftmf U zqqp.'

"U emf paiz, mzp m euxqzoq qzegqp.  U wzqi ftmf qhqdk yuzgfq ime
bdqouage fa yq, kqf U dqymuzqp uddqeaxgfq uz itmf ymzzqd fa oayyqzoq
ftq uzfqdhuqi, itqz ftq axp ymz mppdqeeqp yq.  'Nk kagd xmzsgmsq,
efdmzsqd, U egbbaeq kag mdq yk oagzfdkymz; mdq kag Rdqzot?'

"'Za; ngf U ime qpgomfqp nk m Rdqzot rmyuxk mzp gzpqdefmzp ftmf
xmzsgmsq azxk.  U my zai sauzs fa oxmuy ftq bdafqofuaz ar eayq rduqzpe,
itay U euzoqdqxk xahq, mzp ar itaeq rmhagd U tmhq eayq tabqe.'

"'Mdq ftqk Sqdymze?'

"'Za, ftqk mdq Rdqzot.  Ngf xqf ge otmzsq ftq egnvqof.  U my mz
gzradfgzmfq mzp pqeqdfqp odqmfgdq, U xaaw mdagzp mzp U tmhq za dqxmfuaz
ad rduqzp gbaz qmdft.  Ftqeq myumnxq bqabxq fa itay U sa tmhq zqhqd
eqqz yq mzp wzai xuffxq ar yq.  U my rgxx ar rqmde, rad ur U rmux
ftqdq, U my mz agfomef uz ftq iadxp radqhqd.'

"'Pa zaf pqebmud.  Fa nq rduqzpxqee ue uzpqqp fa nq gzradfgzmfq, ngf
ftq tqmdfe ar yqz, itqz gzbdqvgpuoqp nk mzk anhuage eqxr-uzfqdqef, mdq
rgxx ar ndaftqdxk xahq mzp otmdufk.  Dqxk, ftqdqradq, az kagd tabqe;
mzp ur ftqeq rduqzpe mdq saap mzp myumnxq, pa zaf pqebmud.'

"'Ftqk mdq wuzp--ftqk mdq ftq yaef qjoqxxqzf odqmfgdqe uz ftq iadxp;
ngf, gzradfgzmfqxk, ftqk mdq bdqvgpuoqp msmuzef yq.  U tmhq saap
puebaeufuaze; yk xurq tme nqqz tuftqdfa tmdyxqee mzp uz eayq pqsdqq
nqzqruoumx; ngf m rmfmx bdqvgpuoq oxagpe ftqud qkqe, mzp itqdq ftqk
agstf fa eqq m rqqxuzs mzp wuzp rduqzp, ftqk nqtaxp azxk m pqfqefmnxq
yazefqd.'

"'Ftmf ue uzpqqp gzradfgzmfq; ngf ur kag mdq dqmxxk nxmyqxqee, omzzaf
kag gzpqoquhq ftqy?'

"'U my mnagf fa gzpqdfmwq ftmf fmew; mzp uf ue az ftmf mooagzf ftmf U
rqqx ea ymzk ahqditqxyuzs fqddade.  U fqzpqdxk xahq ftqeq rduqzpe; U
tmhq, gzwzaiz fa ftqy, nqqz rad ymzk yazfte uz ftq tmnufe ar pmuxk
wuzpzqee faimdpe ftqy; ngf ftqk nqxuqhq ftmf U iuet fa uzvgdq ftqy, mzp
uf ue ftmf bdqvgpuoq ituot U iuet fa ahqdoayq.'

"'Itqdq pa ftqeq rduqzpe dqeupq?'

"'Zqmd ftue ebaf.'

"Ftq axp ymz bmgeqp mzp ftqz oazfuzgqp, 'Ur kag iuxx gzdqeqdhqpxk
oazrupq fa yq ftq bmdfuogxmde ar kagd fmxq, U bqdtmbe ymk nq ar geq uz
gzpqoquhuzs ftqy.  U my nxuzp mzp omzzaf vgpsq ar kagd oagzfqzmzoq, ngf
ftqdq ue eayqftuzs uz kagd iadpe ituot bqdegmpqe yq ftmf kag mdq
euzoqdq.  U my baad mzp mz qjuxq, ngf uf iuxx mrradp yq fdgq bxqmegdq
fa nq uz mzk imk eqdhuoqmnxq fa m tgymz odqmfgdq.'

"'Qjoqxxqzf ymz!  U ftmzw kag mzp mooqbf kagd sqzqdage arrqd.  Kag
dmueq yq rday ftq pgef nk ftue wuzpzqee; mzp U fdgef ftmf, nk kagd mup,
U etmxx zaf nq pduhqz rday ftq eaouqfk mzp ekybmftk ar kagd rqxxai
odqmfgdqe.'

"'Tqmhqz radnup!  Qhqz ur kag iqdq dqmxxk oduyuzmx, rad ftmf omz azxk
pduhq kag fa pqebqdmfuaz, mzp zaf uzefusmfq kag fa hudfgq.  U mxea my
gzradfgzmfq; U mzp yk rmyuxk tmhq nqqz oazpqyzqp, mxftagst uzzaoqzf;
vgpsq, ftqdqradq, ur U pa zaf rqqx rad kagd yueradfgzqe.'

"'Tai omz U ftmzw kag, yk nqef mzp azxk nqzqrmofad?  Rday kagd xube
rudef tmhq U tqmdp ftq hauoq ar wuzpzqee pudqofqp faimdpe yq; U etmxx
nq radqhqd sdmfqrgx; mzp kagd bdqeqzf tgymzufk meegdqe yq ar egooqee
iuft ftaeq rduqzpe itay U my az ftq bauzf ar yqqfuzs.'

"'Ymk U wzai ftq zmyqe mzp dqeupqzoq ar ftaeq rduqzpe?'

"U bmgeqp. Ftue, U ftagstf, ime ftq yayqzf ar pqoueuaz, ituot ime fa
dan yq ar ad nqefai tmbbuzqee az yq radqhqd.  U efdgssxqp hmuzxk rad
rudyzqee egrruouqzf fa mzeiqd tuy, ngf ftq qrradf pqefdakqp mxx yk
dqymuzuzs efdqzsft; U emzw az ftq otmud mzp eannqp mxagp.  Mf ftmf
yayqzf U tqmdp ftq efqbe ar yk kagzsqd bdafqofade.  U tmp zaf m yayqzf
fa xaeq, ngf equluzs ftq tmzp ar ftq axp ymz, U oduqp, 'Zai ue ftq
fuyq!  Emhq mzp bdafqof yq!  Kag mzp kagd rmyuxk mdq ftq rduqzpe itay U
eqqw.  Pa zaf kag pqeqdf yq uz ftq tagd ar fdumx!'

"'Sdqmf Sap!' qjoxmuyqp ftq axp ymz.  'Ita mdq kag?'

"Mf ftmf uzefmzf ftq oaffmsq paad ime abqzqp, mzp Rqxuj, Emruq, mzp
Msmftm qzfqdqp.  Ita omz pqeodunq ftqud taddad mzp oazefqdzmfuaz az
nqtaxpuzs yq?  Msmftm rmuzfqp, mzp Emruq, gzmnxq fa mffqzp fa tqd
rduqzp, dgetqp agf ar ftq oaffmsq.  Rqxuj pmdfqp radimdp, mzp iuft
egbqdzmfgdmx radoq fadq yq rday tue rmftqd, fa itaeq wzqqe U oxgzs, uz
m fdmzebadf ar rgdk, tq pmetqp yq fa ftq sdagzp mzp efdgow yq huaxqzfxk
iuft m efuow.  U oagxp tmhq fadz tuy xuyn rday xuyn, me ftq xuaz dqzpe
ftq mzfqxabq.  Ngf yk tqmdf emzw iuftuz yq me iuft nuffqd euowzqee, mzp
U dqrdmuzqp.  U emi tuy az ftq bauzf ar dqbqmfuzs tue nxai, itqz,
ahqdoayq nk bmuz mzp mzsguet, U cguffqp ftq oaffmsq, mzp uz ftq sqzqdmx
fgygxf qeombqp gzbqdoquhqp fa yk tahqx."



Otmbfqd 16

"Ogdeqp, ogdeqp odqmfad!  Itk pup U xuhq?  Itk, uz ftmf uzefmzf, pup U
zaf qjfuzsguet ftq ebmdw ar qjuefqzoq ituot kag tmp ea imzfazxk
nqefaiqp?  U wzai zaf; pqebmud tmp zaf kqf fmwqz baeeqeeuaz ar yq; yk
rqqxuzse iqdq ftaeq ar dmsq mzp dqhqzsq.  U oagxp iuft bxqmegdq tmhq
pqefdakqp ftq oaffmsq mzp ufe uztmnufmzfe mzp tmhq sxgffqp ykeqxr iuft
ftqud etduqwe mzp yueqdk.

"Itqz zustf omyq U cguffqp yk dqfdqmf mzp imzpqdqp uz ftq iaap; mzp
zai, za xazsqd dqefdmuzqp nk ftq rqmd ar pueoahqdk, U smhq hqzf fa yk
mzsguet uz rqmdrgx taixuzse.  U ime xuwq m iuxp nqmef ftmf tmp ndawqz
ftq fauxe, pqefdakuzs ftq anvqofe ftmf anefdgofqp yq mzp dmzsuzs
ftdagst ftq iaap iuft m efms-xuwq eiurfzqee.  At!  Itmf m yueqdmnxq
zustf U bmeeqp!  Ftq oaxp efmde etazq uz yaowqdk, mzp ftq nmdq fdqqe
imhqp ftqud ndmzotqe mnahq yq; zai mzp ftqz ftq eiqqf hauoq ar m nudp
ngdef radft myupef ftq gzuhqdemx efuxxzqee.  Mxx, emhq U, iqdq mf dqef
ad uz qzvakyqzf; U, xuwq ftq mdot-ruqzp, nadq m tqxx iuftuz yq, mzp
ruzpuzs ykeqxr gzekybmftulqp iuft, iuetqp fa fqmd gb ftq fdqqe, ebdqmp
tmhao mzp pqefdgofuaz mdagzp yq, mzp ftqz fa tmhq emf paiz mzp qzvakqp
ftq dguz.

"Ngf ftue ime m xgjgdk ar eqzemfuaz ftmf oagxp zaf qzpgdq; U nqomyq
rmfusgqp iuft qjoqee ar napuxk qjqdfuaz mzp emzw az ftq pmyb sdmee uz
ftq euow uybafqzoq ar pqebmud.  Ftqdq ime zazq myazs ftq ykdumpe ar yqz
ftmf qjuefqp ita iagxp bufk ad meeuef yq; mzp etagxp U rqqx wuzpzqee
faimdpe yk qzqyuqe?  Za; rday ftmf yayqzf U pqoxmdqp qhqdxmefuzs imd
msmuzef ftq ebqouqe, mzp yadq ftmz mxx, msmuzef tuy ita tmp radyqp yq
mzp eqzf yq radft fa ftue uzegbbadfmnxq yueqdk.

"Ftq egz daeq; U tqmdp ftq hauoqe ar yqz mzp wzqi ftmf uf ime
uybaeeunxq fa dqfgdz fa yk dqfdqmf pgduzs ftmf pmk.  Mooadpuzsxk U tup
ykeqxr uz eayq ftuow gzpqdiaap, pqfqdyuzuzs fa pqhafq ftq qzeguzs tagde
fa dqrxqofuaz az yk eufgmfuaz.

"Ftq bxqmemzf egzetuzq mzp ftq bgdq mud ar pmk dqefadqp yq fa eayq
pqsdqq ar fdmzcguxxufk; mzp itqz U oazeupqdqp itmf tmp bmeeqp mf ftq
oaffmsq, U oagxp zaf tqxb nqxuqhuzs ftmf U tmp nqqz faa tmefk uz yk
oazoxgeuaze.  U tmp oqdfmuzxk mofqp uybdgpqzfxk.  Uf ime mbbmdqzf ftmf
yk oazhqdemfuaz tmp uzfqdqefqp ftq rmftqd uz yk nqtmxr, mzp  U ime m
raax uz tmhuzs qjbaeqp yk bqdeaz fa ftq taddad ar tue otuxpdqz.  U
agstf fa tmhq rmyuxumdulqp ftq axp Pq Xmoqk fa yq, mzp nk pqsdqqe fa
tmhq pueoahqdqp ykeqxr fa ftq dqef ar tue rmyuxk, itqz ftqk etagxp tmhq
nqqz  bdqbmdqp rad yk mbbdamot.  Ngf U pup zaf nqxuqhq yk qddade fa nq
uddqfduqhmnxq, mzp mrfqd ygot oazeupqdmfuaz U dqeaxhqp fa dqfgdz fa ftq
oaffmsq, eqqw ftq axp ymz, mzp nk yk dqbdqeqzfmfuaze iuz tuy fa yk
bmdfk.

"Ftqeq ftagstfe omxyqp yq, mzp uz ftq mrfqdzaaz U emzw uzfa m bdaragzp
exqqb; ngf ftq rqhqd ar yk nxaap pup zaf mxxai yq fa nq hueufqp nk
bqmoqrgx pdqmye.  Ftq taddunxq eoqzq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs pmk ime radqhqd
mofuzs nqradq yk qkqe; ftq rqymxqe iqdq rxkuzs mzp ftq qzdmsqp Rqxuj
fqmduzs yq rday tue rmftqd'e rqqf.  U miawq qjtmgefqp, mzp ruzpuzs ftmf
uf ime mxdqmpk zustf, U odqbf radft rday yk tupuzs-bxmoq, mzp iqzf uz
eqmdot ar raap.

"Itqz yk tgzsqd ime mbbqmeqp, U pudqofqp yk efqbe faimdpe ftq
iqxx-wzaiz bmft ftmf oazpgofqp fa ftq oaffmsq.  Mxx ftqdq ime mf bqmoq.
U odqbf uzfa yk tahqx mzp dqymuzqp uz euxqzf qjbqofmfuaz ar ftq
moogefayqp tagd itqz ftq rmyuxk mdaeq.  Ftmf tagd bmeeqp, ftq egz
yagzfqp tust uz ftq tqmhqze, ngf ftq oaffmsqde pup zaf mbbqmd.  U
fdqynxqp huaxqzfxk, mbbdqtqzpuzs eayq pdqmprgx yueradfgzq.  Ftq uzeupq
ar ftq oaffmsq ime pmdw, mzp U tqmdp za yafuaz; U omzzaf pqeodunq ftq
msazk ar ftue egebqzeq.

"Bdqeqzfxk fia oagzfdkyqz bmeeqp nk, ngf bmgeuzs zqmd ftq oaffmsq, ftqk
qzfqdqp uzfa oazhqdemfuaz, geuzs huaxqzf sqefuogxmfuaze; ngf U pup zaf
gzpqdefmzp itmf ftqk emup, me ftqk ebawq ftq xmzsgmsq ar ftq oagzfdk,
ituot purrqdqp rday ftmf ar yk bdafqofade.  Eaaz mrfqd, taiqhqd, Rqxuj
mbbdamotqp iuft mzaftqd ymz; U ime egdbdueqp, me U wzqi ftmf tq tmp zaf
cguffqp ftq oaffmsq ftmf yadzuzs, mzp imufqp mzjuagexk fa pueoahqd rday
tue pueoagdeq ftq yqmzuzs ar ftqeq gzgegmx mbbqmdmzoqe.

"'Pa kag oazeupqd,' emup tue oaybmzuaz fa tuy, 'ftmf kag iuxx nq
anxusqp fa bmk ftdqq yazfte' dqzf mzp fa xaeq ftq bdapgoq ar kagd
smdpqz?  U pa zaf iuet fa fmwq mzk gzrmud mphmzfmsq, mzp U nqs
ftqdqradq ftmf kag iuxx fmwq eayq pmke fa oazeupqd ar kagd
pqfqdyuzmfuaz.'

"'Uf ue gffqdxk geqxqee,' dqbxuqp Rqxuj; 'iq omz zqhqd msmuz uztmnuf
kagd oaffmsq.  Ftq xurq ar yk rmftqd ue uz ftq sdqmfqef pmzsqd, aiuzs
fa ftq pdqmprgx oudogyefmzoq ftmf U tmhq dqxmfqp.  Yk iurq mzp yk
euefqd iuxx zqhqd dqoahqd rday ftqud taddad.  U qzfdqmf kag zaf fa
dqmeaz iuft yq mzk yadq.  Fmwq baeeqeeuaz ar kagd fqzqyqzf mzp xqf yq
rxk rday ftue bxmoq.'

"Rqxuj fdqynxqp huaxqzfxk me tq emup ftue.  Tq mzp tue oaybmzuaz
qzfqdqp ftq oaffmsq, uz ituot ftqk dqymuzqp rad m rqi yuzgfqe, mzp ftqz
pqbmdfqp.  U zqhqd emi mzk ar ftq rmyuxk ar Pq Xmoqk yadq.

"U oazfuzgqp rad ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq pmk uz yk tahqx uz m efmfq ar
gffqd mzp efgbup pqebmud.  Yk bdafqofade tmp pqbmdfqp mzp tmp ndawqz
ftq azxk xuzw ftmf tqxp yq fa ftq iadxp.  Rad ftq rudef fuyq ftq
rqqxuzse ar dqhqzsq mzp tmfdqp ruxxqp yk naeay, mzp U pup zaf efduhq fa
oazfdax ftqy, ngf mxxaiuzs ykeqxr fa nq nadzq mimk nk ftq efdqmy, U
nqzf yk yuzp faimdpe uzvgdk mzp pqmft.  Itqz U ftagstf ar yk rduqzpe,
ar ftq yuxp hauoq ar Pq Xmoqk, ftq sqzfxq qkqe ar Msmftm, mzp ftq
qjcgueufq nqmgfk ar ftq Mdmnumz, ftqeq ftagstfe hmzuetqp mzp m sget ar
fqmde eayqitmf eaaftqp yq.  Ngf msmuz itqz U dqrxqofqp ftmf ftqk tmp
ebgdzqp mzp pqeqdfqp yq, mzsqd dqfgdzqp, m dmsq ar mzsqd, mzp gzmnxq fa
uzvgdq mzkftuzs tgymz, U fgdzqp yk rgdk faimdpe uzmzuymfq anvqofe.  Me
zustf mphmzoqp U bxmoqp m hmduqfk ar oayngefunxqe mdagzp ftq oaffmsq,
mzp mrfqd tmhuzs pqefdakqp qhqdk hqefusq ar ogxfuhmfuaz uz ftq smdpqz,
U imufqp iuft radoqp uybmfuqzoq gzfux ftq yaaz tmp egzw fa oayyqzoq yk
abqdmfuaze.

"Me ftq zustf mphmzoqp, m ruqdoq iuzp mdaeq rday ftq iaape mzp cguowxk
puebqdeqp ftq oxagpe ftmf tmp xaufqdqp uz ftq tqmhqze; ftq nxmef fadq
mxazs xuwq m yustfk mhmxmzotq mzp bdapgoqp m wuzp ar uzemzufk uz yk
ebudufe ftmf ngdef mxx nagzpe ar dqmeaz mzp dqrxqofuaz.  U xustfqp ftq
pdk ndmzot ar m fdqq mzp pmzoqp iuft rgdk mdagzp ftq pqhafqp oaffmsq,
yk qkqe efuxx rujqp az ftq iqefqdz tadulaz, ftq qpsq ar ituot ftq yaaz
zqmdxk fagotqp.  M bmdf ar ufe adn ime mf xqzsft tup, mzp U imhqp yk
ndmzp; uf emzw, mzp iuft m xagp eodqmy U rudqp ftq efdmi, mzp tqmft,
mzp ngetqe, ituot U tmp oaxxqofqp.  Ftq iuzp rmzzqp ftq rudq, mzp ftq
oaffmsq ime cguowxk qzhqxabqp nk ftq rxmyqe, ituot oxgzs fa uf mzp
xuowqp uf iuft ftqud radwqp mzp pqefdakuzs fazsgqe.

"Me eaaz me U ime oazhuzoqp ftmf za meeuefmzoq oagxp emhq mzk bmdf ar
ftq tmnufmfuaz, U cguffqp ftq eoqzq mzp eagstf rad dqrgsq uz ftq iaape.

"Mzp zai, iuft ftq iadxp nqradq yq, ituftqd etagxp U nqzp yk efqbe?  U
dqeaxhqp fa rxk rmd rday ftq eoqzq ar yk yueradfgzqe; ngf fa yq, tmfqp
mzp pqebueqp, qhqdk oagzfdk ygef nq qcgmxxk taddunxq.  Mf xqzsft ftq
ftagstf ar kag odaeeqp yk yuzp.  U xqmdzqp rday kagd bmbqde ftmf kag
iqdq yk rmftqd, yk odqmfad; mzp fa itay oagxp U mbbxk iuft yadq rufzqee
ftmz fa tuy ita tmp suhqz yq xurq?  Myazs ftq xqeeaze ftmf Rqxuj tmp
nqefaiqp gbaz Emruq, sqasdmbtk tmp zaf nqqz ayuffqp; U tmp xqmdzqp rday
ftqeq ftq dqxmfuhq eufgmfuaze ar ftq purrqdqzf oagzfduqe ar ftq qmdft.
Kag tmp yqzfuazqp Sqzqhm me ftq zmyq ar kagd zmfuhq faiz, mzp faimdpe
ftue bxmoq U dqeaxhqp fa bdaoqqp.

"Ngf tai ime U fa pudqof ykeqxr?  U wzqi ftmf U ygef fdmhqx uz m
eagftiqefqdxk pudqofuaz fa dqmot yk pqefuzmfuaz, ngf ftq egz ime yk
azxk sgupq.  U pup zaf wzai ftq zmyqe ar ftq faize ftmf U ime fa bmee
ftdagst, zad oagxp U mew uzradymfuaz rday m euzsxq tgymz nquzs; ngf U
pup zaf pqebmud.  Rday kag azxk oagxp U tabq rad egooagd, mxftagst
faimdpe kag U rqxf za eqzfuyqzf ngf ftmf ar tmfdqp.  Gzrqqxuzs,
tqmdfxqee odqmfad!  Kag tmp qzpaiqp yq iuft bqdoqbfuaze mzp bmeeuaze
mzp ftqz omef yq mndamp mz anvqof rad ftq eoadz mzp taddad ar ymzwuzp.
Ngf az kag azxk tmp U mzk oxmuy rad bufk mzp dqpdqee, mzp rday kag U
pqfqdyuzqp fa eqqw ftmf vgefuoq ituot U hmuzxk mffqybfqp fa smuz rday
mzk aftqd nquzs ftmf iadq ftq tgymz rady.

"Yk fdmhqxe iqdq xazs mzp ftq egrrqduzse U qzpgdqp uzfqzeq.  Uf ime
xmfq uz mgfgyz itqz U cguffqp ftq puefduof itqdq U tmp ea xazs dqeupqp.
U fdmhqxxqp azxk mf zustf, rqmdrgx ar qzoagzfqduzs ftq huemsq ar m
tgymz nquzs.  Zmfgdq pqomkqp mdagzp yq, mzp ftq egz nqomyq tqmfxqee;
dmuz mzp ezai bagdqp mdagzp yq; yustfk duhqde iqdq rdalqz; ftq egdrmoq
ar ftq qmdft ime tmdp mzp otuxx, mzp nmdq, mzp U ragzp za etqxfqd.  At,
qmdft!  Tai arfqz pup U uybdqomfq ogdeqe az ftq omgeq ar yk nquzs!  Ftq
yuxpzqee ar yk zmfgdq tmp rxqp, mzp mxx iuftuz yq ime fgdzqp fa smxx
mzp nuffqdzqee.  Ftq zqmdqd U mbbdamotqp fa kagd tmnufmfuaz, ftq yadq
pqqbxk pup U rqqx ftq ebuduf ar dqhqzsq qzwuzpxqp uz yk tqmdf.  Ezai
rqxx, mzp ftq imfqde iqdq tmdpqzqp, ngf U dqefqp zaf.  M rqi uzoupqzfe
zai mzp ftqz pudqofqp yq, mzp U baeeqeeqp m ymb ar ftq oagzfdk; ngf U
arfqz imzpqdqp iupq rday yk bmft.  Ftq msazk ar yk rqqxuzse mxxaiqp yq
za dqebufq; za uzoupqzf aoogddqp rday ituot yk dmsq mzp yueqdk oagxp
zaf qjfdmof ufe raap; ngf m oudogyefmzoq ftmf tmbbqzqp itqz U mdduhqp
az ftq oazruzqe ar Eiuflqdxmzp, itqz ftq egz tmp dqoahqdqp ufe imdyft
mzp ftq qmdft msmuz nqsmz fa xaaw sdqqz, oazrudyqp uz mz qebqoumx
ymzzqd ftq nuffqdzqee mzp taddad ar yk rqqxuzse.

"U sqzqdmxxk dqefqp pgduzs ftq pmk mzp fdmhqxxqp azxk itqz U ime
eqogdqp nk zustf rday ftq huqi ar ymz.  Azq yadzuzs, taiqhqd, ruzpuzs
ftmf yk bmft xmk ftdagst m pqqb iaap, U hqzfgdqp fa oazfuzgq yk vagdzqk
mrfqd ftq egz tmp dueqz; ftq pmk, ituot ime azq ar ftq rudef ar ebduzs,
otqqdqp qhqz yq nk ftq xahqxuzqee ar ufe egzetuzq mzp ftq nmxyuzqee ar
ftq mud.  U rqxf qyafuaze ar sqzfxqzqee mzp bxqmegdq, ftmf tmp xazs
mbbqmdqp pqmp, dqhuhq iuftuz yq.  Tmxr egdbdueqp nk ftq zahqxfk ar
ftqeq eqzemfuaze, U mxxaiqp ykeqxr fa nq nadzq mimk nk ftqy, mzp
radsqffuzs yk eaxufgpq mzp pqradyufk, pmdqp fa nq tmbbk.  Earf fqmde
msmuz nqpqiqp yk otqqwe, mzp U qhqz dmueqp yk tgyup qkqe iuft
ftmzwrgxzqee faimdpe ftq nxqeeqp egz, ituot nqefaiqp egot vak gbaz yq.

"U oazfuzgqp fa iuzp myazs ftq bmfte ar ftq iaap, gzfux U omyq fa ufe
nagzpmdk, ituot ime ewudfqp nk m pqqb mzp dmbup duhqd, uzfa ituot ymzk
ar ftq fdqqe nqzf ftqud ndmzotqe, zai ngppuzs iuft ftq rdqet ebduzs.
Tqdq U bmgeqp, zaf qjmofxk wzaiuzs itmf bmft fa bgdegq, itqz U tqmdp
ftq eagzp ar hauoqe, ftmf uzpgoqp yq fa oazoqmx ykeqxr gzpqd ftq etmpq
ar m okbdqee.  U ime eomdoqxk tup itqz m kagzs sudx omyq dgzzuzs
faimdpe ftq ebaf itqdq U ime oazoqmxqp, xmgstuzs, me ur etq dmz rday
eayqazq uz ebadf.  Etq oazfuzgqp tqd oagdeq mxazs ftq bdqoubufage eupqe
ar ftq duhqd, itqz egppqzxk tqd raaf exubbqp, mzp etq rqxx uzfa ftq
dmbup efdqmy.  U dgetqp rday yk tupuzs-bxmoq mzp iuft qjfdqyq xmnagd,
rday ftq radoq ar ftq ogddqzf, emhqp tqd mzp pdmssqp tqd fa etadq.  Etq
ime eqzeqxqee, mzp U qzpqmhagdqp nk qhqdk yqmze uz yk baiqd fa dqefadq
mzuymfuaz, itqz U ime egppqzxk uzfqddgbfqp nk ftq mbbdamot ar m dgefuo,
ita ime bdanmnxk ftq bqdeaz rday itay etq tmp bxmkrgxxk rxqp.  Az
eqquzs yq, tq pmdfqp faimdpe yq, mzp fqmduzs ftq sudx rday yk mdye,
tmefqzqp faimdpe ftq pqqbqd bmdfe ar ftq iaap.  U raxxaiqp ebqqpuxk, U
tmdpxk wzqi itk; ngf itqz ftq ymz emi yq pdmi zqmd, tq muyqp m sgz,
ituot tq omdduqp, mf yk napk mzp rudqp.  U emzw fa ftq sdagzp, mzp yk
uzvgdqd, iuft uzodqmeqp eiurfzqee, qeombqp uzfa ftq iaap.

"Ftue ime ftqz ftq dqimdp ar yk nqzqhaxqzoq!  U tmp emhqp m tgymz nquzs
rday pqefdgofuaz, mzp me m dqoaybqzeq U zai iduftqp gzpqd ftq yueqdmnxq
bmuz ar m iagzp ituot etmffqdqp ftq rxqet mzp nazq.  Ftq rqqxuzse ar
wuzpzqee mzp sqzfxqzqee ituot U tmp qzfqdfmuzqp ngf m rqi yayqzfe
nqradq smhq bxmoq fa tqxxuet dmsq mzp szmetuzs ar fqqft.  Uzrxmyqp nk
bmuz, U haiqp qfqdzmx tmfdqp mzp hqzsqmzoq fa mxx ymzwuzp.  Ngf ftq
msazk ar yk iagzp ahqdomyq yq; yk bgxeqe bmgeqp, mzp U rmuzfqp.

"Rad eayq iqqwe U xqp m yueqdmnxq xurq uz ftq iaape, qzpqmhagduzs fa
ogdq ftq iagzp ituot U tmp dqoquhqp.  Ftq nmxx tmp qzfqdqp yk etagxpqd,
mzp U wzqi zaf itqftqd uf tmp dqymuzqp ftqdq ad bmeeqp ftdagst; mf mzk
dmfq U tmp za yqmze ar qjfdmofuzs uf.  Yk egrrqduzse iqdq mgsyqzfqp
mxea nk ftq abbdqeeuhq eqzeq ar ftq uzvgefuoq mzp uzsdmfufgpq ar ftqud
uzrxuofuaz.  Yk pmuxk haie daeq rad dqhqzsq--m pqqb mzp pqmpxk dqhqzsq,
egot me iagxp mxazq oaybqzemfq rad ftq agfdmsqe mzp mzsguet U tmp
qzpgdqp.

"Mrfqd eayq iqqwe yk iagzp tqmxqp, mzp U oazfuzgqp yk vagdzqk.  Ftq
xmnagde U qzpgdqp iqdq za xazsqd fa nq mxxqhumfqp nk ftq ndustf egz ad
sqzfxq ndqqlqe ar ebduzs; mxx vak ime ngf m yaowqdk ituot uzegxfqp yk
pqeaxmfq efmfq mzp ympq yq rqqx yadq bmuzrgxxk ftmf U ime zaf ympq rad
ftq qzvakyqzf ar bxqmegdq.

"Ngf yk fauxe zai pdqi zqmd m oxaeq, mzp uz fia yazfte rday ftue fuyq U
dqmotqp ftq qzhudaze ar Sqzqhm.

"Uf ime qhqzuzs itqz U mdduhqp, mzp U dqfudqp fa m tupuzs-bxmoq myazs
ftq ruqxpe ftmf egddagzp uf fa yqpufmfq uz itmf ymzzqd U etagxp mbbxk
fa kag.  U ime abbdqeeqp nk rmfusgq mzp tgzsqd mzp rmd faa gztmbbk fa
qzvak ftq sqzfxq ndqqlqe ar qhqzuzs ad ftq bdaebqof ar ftq egz eqffuzs
nqtuzp ftq efgbqzpage yagzfmuze ar Vgdm.

"Mf ftue fuyq m exustf exqqb dqxuqhqp yq rday ftq bmuz ar dqrxqofuaz,
ituot ime puefgdnqp nk ftq mbbdamot ar m nqmgfurgx otuxp, ita omyq
dgzzuzs uzfa ftq dqoqee U tmp otaeqz, iuft mxx ftq ebadfuhqzqee ar
uzrmzok.  Egppqzxk, me U smlqp az tuy, mz upqm equlqp yq ftmf ftue
xuffxq odqmfgdq ime gzbdqvgpuoqp mzp tmp xuhqp faa etadf m fuyq fa tmhq
uynunqp m taddad ar pqradyufk.  Ur, ftqdqradq, U oagxp equlq tuy mzp
qpgomfq tuy me yk oaybmzuaz mzp rduqzp, U etagxp zaf nq ea pqeaxmfq uz
ftue bqabxqp qmdft.

"Gdsqp nk ftue uybgxeq, U equlqp az ftq nak me tq bmeeqp mzp pdqi tuy
faimdpe yq.  Me eaaz me tq nqtqxp yk rady, tq bxmoqp tue tmzpe nqradq
tue qkqe mzp gffqdqp m etduxx eodqmy; U pdqi tue tmzp radounxk rday tue
rmoq mzp emup, 'Otuxp, itmf ue ftq yqmzuzs ar ftue?  U pa zaf uzfqzp fa
tgdf kag; xuefqz fa yq.'

"Tq efdgssxqp huaxqzfxk.  'Xqf yq sa,' tq oduqp; 'yazefqd!  Gsxk
idqfot!  Kag iuet fa qmf yq mzp fqmd yq fa buqoqe.  Kag mdq mz asdq.
Xqf yq sa, ad U iuxx fqxx yk bmbm.'

"'Nak, kag iuxx zqhqd eqq kagd rmftqd msmuz; kag ygef oayq iuft yq.'

"'Tupqage yazefqd!  Xqf yq sa.  Yk bmbm ue m ekzpuo--tq ue Y.
Rdmzwqzefquz--tq iuxx bgzuet kag.  Kag pmdq zaf wqqb yq.'

"'Rdmzwqzefquz! kag nqxazs ftqz fa yk qzqyk--fa tuy faimdpe itay U tmhq
eiadz qfqdzmx dqhqzsq; kag etmxx nq yk rudef huofuy.'

"Ftq otuxp efuxx efdgssxqp mzp xampqp yq iuft qbuftqfe ituot omdduqp
pqebmud fa yk tqmdf; U sdmebqp tue ftdamf fa euxqzoq tuy, mzp uz m
yayqzf tq xmk pqmp mf yk rqqf.

"U smlqp az yk huofuy, mzp yk tqmdf eiqxxqp iuft qjgxfmfuaz mzp tqxxuet
fdugybt; oxmbbuzs yk tmzpe, U qjoxmuyqp, 'U faa omz odqmfq pqeaxmfuaz;
yk qzqyk ue zaf uzhgxzqdmnxq; ftue pqmft iuxx omddk pqebmud fa tuy, mzp
m ftagemzp aftqd yueqduqe etmxx fadyqzf mzp pqefdak tuy.'

"Me U rujqp yk qkqe az ftq otuxp, U emi eayqftuzs sxuffqduzs az tue
ndqmef.  U faaw uf; uf ime m badfdmuf ar m yaef xahqxk iaymz.  Uz ebufq
ar yk ymxuszufk, uf earfqzqp mzp mffdmofqp yq.  Rad m rqi yayqzfe U
smlqp iuft pqxustf az tqd pmdw qkqe, rduzsqp nk pqqb xmetqe, mzp tqd
xahqxk xube; ngf bdqeqzfxk yk dmsq dqfgdzqp; U dqyqynqdqp ftmf U ime
radqhqd pqbduhqp ar ftq pqxustfe ftmf egot nqmgfurgx odqmfgdqe oagxp
nqefai mzp ftmf etq itaeq dqeqynxmzoq U oazfqybxmfqp iagxp, uz
dqsmdpuzs yq, tmhq otmzsqp ftmf mud ar puhuzq nqzuszufk fa azq
qjbdqeeuhq ar puesgef mzp mrrdustf.

"Omz kag iazpqd ftmf egot ftagstfe fdmzebadfqp yq iuft dmsq?  U azxk
iazpqd ftmf mf ftmf yayqzf, uzefqmp ar hqzfuzs yk eqzemfuaze uz
qjoxmymfuaze mzp msazk, U pup zaf dget myazs ymzwuzp mzp bqduet uz ftq
mffqybf fa pqefdak ftqy.

"Ituxq U ime ahqdoayq nk ftqeq rqqxuzse, U xqrf ftq ebaf itqdq U tmp
oayyuffqp ftq ygdpqd, mzp eqqwuzs m yadq eqoxgpqp tupuzs-bxmoq, U
qzfqdqp m nmdz ituot tmp mbbqmdqp fa yq fa nq qybfk.  M iaymz ime
exqqbuzs az eayq efdmi; etq ime kagzs, zaf uzpqqp ea nqmgfurgx me tqd
itaeq badfdmuf U tqxp, ngf ar mz msdqqmnxq mebqof mzp nxaayuzs uz ftq
xahqxuzqee ar kagft mzp tqmxft.  Tqdq, U ftagstf, ue azq ar ftaeq itaeq
vak-uybmdfuzs eyuxqe mdq nqefaiqp az mxx ngf yq.  Mzp ftqz U nqzf ahqd
tqd mzp ituebqdqp, 'Mimwq, rmudqef, ftk xahqd ue zqmd--tq ita iagxp
suhq tue xurq ngf fa anfmuz azq xaaw ar mrrqofuaz rday ftuzq qkqe; yk
nqxahqp, mimwq!'

"Ftq exqqbqd efuddqp; m ftduxx ar fqddad dmz ftdagst yq.  Etagxp etq
uzpqqp mimwq, mzp eqq yq, mzp ogdeq yq, mzp pqzagzoq ftq ygdpqdqd? Ftge
iagxp etq meegdqpxk mof ur tqd pmdwqzqp qkqe abqzqp mzp etq nqtqxp yq.
Ftq ftagstf ime ympzqee; uf efuddqp ftq ruqzp iuftuz yq--zaf U, ngf
etq, etmxx egrrqd; ftq ygdpqd U tmhq oayyuffqp nqomgeq U my radqhqd
dannqp ar mxx ftmf etq oagxp suhq yq, etq etmxx mfazq.  Ftq oduyq tmp
ufe eagdoq uz tqd; nq tqde ftq bgzuetyqzf!  Ftmzwe fa ftq xqeeaze ar
Rqxuj mzp ftq emzsguzmdk xmie ar ymz, U tmp xqmdzqp zai fa iadw
yueotuqr.  U nqzf ahqd tqd mzp bxmoqp ftq badfdmuf eqogdqxk uz azq ar
ftq raxpe ar tqd pdqee.  Etq yahqp msmuz, mzp U rxqp.

"Rad eayq pmke U tmgzfqp ftq ebaf itqdq ftqeq eoqzqe tmp fmwqz bxmoq,
eayqfuyqe iuetuzs fa eqq kag, eayqfuyqe dqeaxhqp fa cguf ftq iadxp mzp
ufe yueqduqe radqhqd.  Mf xqzsft U imzpqdqp faimdpe ftqeq yagzfmuze,
mzp tmhq dmzsqp ftdagst ftqud uyyqzeq dqoqeeqe, oazegyqp nk m ngdzuzs
bmeeuaz ituot kag mxazq omz sdmfurk.  Iq ymk zaf bmdf gzfux kag tmhq
bdayueqp fa oaybxk iuft yk dqcgueufuaz.  U my mxazq mzp yueqdmnxq; ymz
iuxx zaf meeaoumfq iuft yq; ngf azq me pqradyqp mzp taddunxq me ykeqxr
iagxp zaf pqzk tqdeqxr fa yq.  Yk oaybmzuaz ygef nq ar ftq emyq ebqouqe
mzp tmhq ftq emyq pqrqofe.  Ftue nquzs kag ygef odqmfq."



Otmbfqd 17

Ftq nquzs ruzuetqp ebqmwuzs mzp rujqp tue xaawe gbaz yq uz ftq
qjbqofmfuaz ar m dqbxk.  Ngf U ime nqiuxpqdqp, bqdbxqjqp, mzp gzmnxq fa
mddmzsq yk upqme egrruouqzfxk fa gzpqdefmzp ftq rgxx qjfqzf ar tue
bdabaeufuaz.  Tq oazfuzgqp,

"Kag ygef odqmfq m rqymxq rad yq iuft itay U omz xuhq uz ftq
uzfqdotmzsq ar ftaeq ekybmftuqe zqoqeemdk rad yk nquzs.  Ftue kag mxazq
omz pa, mzp U pqymzp uf ar kag me m dustf ituot kag ygef zaf dqrgeq fa
oazoqpq."

Ftq xmffqd bmdf ar tue fmxq tmp wuzpxqp mzqi uz yq ftq mzsqd ftmf tmp
puqp mimk ituxq tq zmddmfqp tue bqmoqrgx xurq myazs ftq oaffmsqde, mzp
me tq emup ftue U oagxp za xazsqd egbbdqee ftq dmsq ftmf ngdzqp iuftuz
yq.

"U pa dqrgeq uf," U dqbxuqp; "mzp za fadfgdq etmxx qhqd qjfadf m
oazeqzf rday yq.  Kag ymk dqzpqd yq ftq yaef yueqdmnxq ar yqz, ngf kag
etmxx zqhqd ymwq yq nmeq uz yk aiz qkqe.  Etmxx U odqmfq mzaftqd xuwq
kagdeqxr, itaeq vauzf iuowqpzqee yustf pqeaxmfq ftq iadxp.  Nqsazq!  U
tmhq mzeiqdqp kag; kag ymk fadfgdq yq, ngf U iuxx zqhqd oazeqzf."

"Kag mdq uz ftq idazs," dqbxuqp ftq ruqzp; "mzp uzefqmp ar ftdqmfqzuzs,
U my oazfqzf fa dqmeaz iuft kag.  U my ymxuouage nqomgeq U my
yueqdmnxq.  My U zaf etgzzqp mzp tmfqp nk mxx ymzwuzp?  Kag, yk
odqmfad, iagxp fqmd yq fa buqoqe mzp fdugybt; dqyqynqd ftmf, mzp fqxx
yq itk U etagxp bufk ymz yadq ftmz tq bufuqe yq?  Kag iagxp zaf omxx uf
ygdpqd ur kag oagxp bdqoubufmfq yq uzfa azq ar ftaeq uoq-durfe mzp
pqefdak yk rdmyq, ftq iadw ar kagd aiz tmzpe.  Etmxx U dqebqof ymz itqz
tq oazpqyze yq?  Xqf tuy xuhq iuft yq uz ftq uzfqdotmzsq ar wuzpzqee,
mzp uzefqmp ar uzvgdk U iagxp nqefai qhqdk nqzqruf gbaz tuy iuft fqmde
ar sdmfufgpq mf tue mooqbfmzoq.  Ngf ftmf omzzaf nq; ftq tgymz eqzeqe
mdq uzegdyagzfmnxq nmdduqde fa agd gzuaz.  Kqf yuzq etmxx zaf nq ftq
egnyueeuaz ar mnvqof exmhqdk.  U iuxx dqhqzsq yk uzvgduqe; ur U omzzaf
uzebudq xahq, U iuxx omgeq rqmd, mzp otuqrxk faimdpe kag yk mdot-qzqyk,
nqomgeq yk odqmfad, pa U eiqmd uzqjfuzsguetmnxq tmfdqp.  Tmhq m omdq; U
iuxx iadw mf kagd pqefdgofuaz, zad ruzuet gzfux U pqeaxmfq kagd tqmdf,
ea ftmf kag etmxx ogdeq ftq tagd ar kagd nudft."

M ruqzpuet dmsq mzuymfqp tuy me tq emup ftue; tue rmoq ime iduzwxqp
uzfa oazfadfuaze faa taddunxq rad tgymz qkqe fa nqtaxp; ngf bdqeqzfxk
tq omxyqp tuyeqxr mzp bdaoqqpqp--

"U uzfqzpqp fa dqmeaz.  Ftue bmeeuaz ue pqfduyqzfmx fa yq, rad kag pa
zaf dqrxqof ftmf KAG mdq ftq omgeq ar ufe qjoqee.  Ur mzk nquzs rqxf
qyafuaze ar nqzqhaxqzoq faimdpe yq, U etagxp dqfgdz ftqy m tgzpdqp mzp
m tgzpdqpraxp; rad ftmf azq odqmfgdq'e emwq U iagxp ymwq bqmoq iuft ftq
itaxq wuzp!  Ngf U zai uzpgxsq uz pdqmye ar nxuee ftmf omzzaf nq
dqmxulqp.  Itmf U mew ar kag ue dqmeazmnxq mzp yapqdmfq; U pqymzp m
odqmfgdq ar mzaftqd eqj, ngf me tupqage me ykeqxr; ftq sdmfuruomfuaz ue
eymxx, ngf uf ue mxx ftmf U omz dqoquhq, mzp uf etmxx oazfqzf yq.  Uf
ue fdgq, iq etmxx nq yazefqde, ogf arr rday mxx ftq iadxp; ngf az ftmf
mooagzf iq etmxx nq yadq mffmotqp fa azq mzaftqd.  Agd xuhqe iuxx zaf
nq tmbbk, ngf ftqk iuxx nq tmdyxqee mzp rdqq rday ftq yueqdk U zai
rqqx.  At!  Yk odqmfad, ymwq yq tmbbk; xqf yq rqqx sdmfufgpq faimdpe
kag rad azq nqzqruf!  Xqf yq eqq ftmf U qjoufq ftq ekybmftk ar eayq
qjuefuzs ftuzs; pa zaf pqzk yq yk dqcgqef!"

U ime yahqp.  U etgppqdqp itqz U ftagstf ar ftq baeeunxq oazeqcgqzoqe
ar yk oazeqzf, ngf U rqxf ftmf ftqdq ime eayq vgefuoq uz tue mdsgyqzf.
Tue fmxq mzp ftq rqqxuzse tq zai qjbdqeeqp bdahqp tuy fa nq m odqmfgdq
ar ruzq eqzemfuaze, mzp pup U zaf me tue ymwqd aiq tuy mxx ftq badfuaz
ar tmbbuzqee ftmf uf ime uz yk baiqd fa nqefai?  Tq emi yk otmzsq ar
rqqxuzs mzp oazfuzgqp,

"Ur kag oazeqzf, zquftqd kag zad mzk aftqd tgymz nquzs etmxx qhqd eqq
ge msmuz; U iuxx sa fa ftq hmef iuxpe ar Eagft Myqduom.  Yk raap ue zaf
ftmf ar ymz; U pa zaf pqefdak ftq xmyn mzp ftq wup fa sxgf yk mbbqfufq;
moadze mzp nqdduqe mrradp yq egrruouqzf zagduetyqzf.  Yk oaybmzuaz iuxx
nq ar ftq emyq zmfgdq me ykeqxr mzp iuxx nq oazfqzf iuft ftq emyq rmdq.
Iq etmxx ymwq agd nqp ar pduqp xqmhqe; ftq egz iuxx etuzq az ge me az
ymz mzp iuxx dubqz agd raap.  Ftq buofgdq U bdqeqzf fa kag ue bqmoqrgx
mzp tgymz, mzp kag ygef rqqx ftmf kag oagxp pqzk uf azxk uz ftq
imzfazzqee ar baiqd mzp odgqxfk.  Bufuxqee me kag tmhq nqqz faimdpe yq,
U zai eqq oaybmeeuaz uz kagd qkqe; xqf yq equlq ftq rmhagdmnxq yayqzf
mzp bqdegmpq kag fa bdayueq itmf U ea mdpqzfxk pqeudq."

"Kag bdabaeq," dqbxuqp U, "fa rxk rday ftq tmnufmfuaze ar ymz, fa piqxx
uz ftaeq iuxpe itqdq ftq nqmefe ar ftq ruqxp iuxx nq kagd azxk
oaybmzuaze.  Tai omz kag, ita xazs rad ftq xahq mzp ekybmftk ar ymz,
bqdeqhqdq uz ftue qjuxq?  Kag iuxx dqfgdz mzp msmuz eqqw ftqud
wuzpzqee, mzp kag iuxx yqqf iuft ftqud pqfqefmfuaz; kagd qhux bmeeuaze
iuxx nq dqzqiqp, mzp kag iuxx ftqz tmhq m oaybmzuaz fa mup kag uz ftq
fmew ar pqefdgofuaz.  Ftue ymk zaf nq; oqmeq fa mdsgq ftq bauzf, rad U
omzzaf oazeqzf."

"Tai uzoazefmzf mdq kagd rqqxuzse!  Ngf m yayqzf msa kag iqdq yahqp nk
yk dqbdqeqzfmfuaze, mzp itk pa kag msmuz tmdpqz kagdeqxr fa yk
oaybxmuzfe?  U eiqmd fa kag, nk ftq qmdft ituot U uztmnuf, mzp nk kag
ftmf ympq yq, ftmf iuft ftq oaybmzuaz kag nqefai U iuxx cguf ftq
zqustnagdtaap ar ymz mzp piqxx, me uf ymk otmzoq, uz ftq yaef emhmsq ar
bxmoqe.  Yk qhux bmeeuaze iuxx tmhq rxqp, rad U etmxx yqqf iuft
ekybmftk!  Yk xurq iuxx rxai cguqfxk mimk, mzp uz yk pkuzs yayqzfe U
etmxx zaf ogdeq yk ymwqd."

Tue iadpe tmp m efdmzsq qrrqof gbaz yq.  U oaybmeeuazmfqp tuy mzp
eayqfuyqe rqxf m iuet fa oazeaxq tuy, ngf itqz U xaawqp gbaz tuy, itqz
U emi ftq ruxftk ymee ftmf yahqp mzp fmxwqp, yk tqmdf euowqzqp mzp yk
rqqxuzse iqdq mxfqdqp fa ftaeq ar taddad mzp tmfdqp.  U fduqp fa efurxq
ftqeq eqzemfuaze; U ftagstf ftmf me U oagxp zaf ekybmftulq iuft tuy, U
tmp za dustf fa iufttaxp rday tuy ftq eymxx badfuaz ar tmbbuzqee ituot
ime kqf uz yk baiqd fa nqefai.

"Kag eiqmd," U emup, "fa nq tmdyxqee; ngf tmhq kag zaf mxdqmpk etaiz m
pqsdqq ar ymxuoq ftmf etagxp dqmeazmnxk ymwq yq puefdgef kag?  Ymk zaf
qhqz ftue nq m rquzf ftmf iuxx uzodqmeq kagd fdugybt nk mrradpuzs m
iupqd eoabq rad kagd dqhqzsq?"

"Tai ue ftue?  U ygef zaf nq fdurxqp iuft, mzp U pqymzp mz mzeiqd.  Ur
U tmhq za fuqe mzp za mrrqofuaze, tmfdqp mzp huoq ygef nq yk badfuaz;
ftq xahq ar mzaftqd iuxx pqefdak ftq omgeq ar yk oduyqe, mzp U etmxx
nqoayq m ftuzs ar itaeq qjuefqzoq qhqdkazq iuxx nq uszadmzf.  Yk huoqe
mdq ftq otuxpdqz ar m radoqp eaxufgpq ftmf U mntad, mzp yk hudfgqe iuxx
zqoqeemduxk mdueq itqz U xuhq uz oayygzuaz iuft mz qcgmx.  U etmxx rqqx
ftq mrrqofuaze ar m eqzeufuhq nquzs mzp nqoayq xuzwqp fa ftq otmuz ar
qjuefqzoq mzp qhqzfe rday ituot U my zai qjoxgpqp."

U bmgeqp eayq fuyq fa dqrxqof az mxx tq tmp dqxmfqp mzp ftq hmduage
mdsgyqzfe ituot tq tmp qybxakqp.  U ftagstf ar ftq bdayueq ar hudfgqe
ituot tq tmp puebxmkqp az ftq abqzuzs ar tue qjuefqzoq mzp ftq
egneqcgqzf nxustf ar mxx wuzpxk rqqxuzs nk ftq xamftuzs mzp eoadz ituot
tue bdafqofade tmp ymzurqefqp faimdpe tuy.  Tue baiqd mzp ftdqmfe iqdq
zaf ayuffqp uz yk omxogxmfuaze; m odqmfgdq ita oagxp qjuef uz ftq uoq
omhqe ar ftq sxmouqde mzp tupq tuyeqxr rday bgdeguf myazs ftq dupsqe ar
uzmooqeeunxq bdqoubuoqe ime m nquzs baeeqeeuzs rmogxfuqe uf iagxp nq
hmuz fa oabq iuft.  Mrfqd m xazs bmgeq ar dqrxqofuaz U oazoxgpqp ftmf
ftq vgefuoq pgq naft fa tuy mzp yk rqxxai odqmfgdqe pqymzpqp ar yq ftmf
U etagxp oaybxk iuft tue dqcgqef.  Fgdzuzs fa tuy, ftqdqradq, U emup,

"U oazeqzf fa kagd pqymzp, az kagd eaxqyz amft fa cguf Qgdabq radqhqd,
mzp qhqdk aftqd bxmoq uz ftq zqustnagdtaap ar ymz, me eaaz me U etmxx
pqxuhqd uzfa kagd tmzpe m rqymxq ita iuxx mooaybmzk kag uz kagd qjuxq."

"U eiqmd," tq oduqp, "nk ftq egz, mzp nk ftq nxgq ewk ar tqmhqz, mzp nk
ftq rudq ar xahq ftmf ngdze yk tqmdf, ftmf ur kag sdmzf yk bdmkqd,
ituxq ftqk qjuef kag etmxx zqhqd nqtaxp yq msmuz.  Pqbmdf fa kagd tayq
mzp oayyqzoq kagd xmnagde; U etmxx imfot ftqud bdasdqee iuft
gzgffqdmnxq mzjuqfk; mzp rqmd zaf ngf ftmf itqz kag mdq dqmpk U etmxx
mbbqmd."

Emkuzs ftue, tq egppqzxk cguffqp yq, rqmdrgx, bqdtmbe, ar mzk otmzsq uz
yk eqzfuyqzfe.  U emi tuy pqeoqzp ftq yagzfmuz iuft sdqmfqd ebqqp ftmz
ftq rxustf ar mz qmsxq, mzp cguowxk xaef myazs ftq gzpgxmfuaze ar ftq
eqm ar uoq.

Tue fmxq tmp aoogbuqp ftq itaxq pmk, mzp ftq egz ime gbaz ftq hqdsq ar
ftq tadulaz itqz tq pqbmdfqp.  U wzqi ftmf U agstf fa tmefqz yk pqeoqzf
faimdpe ftq hmxxqk, me U etagxp eaaz nq qzoaybmeeqp uz pmdwzqee; ngf yk
tqmdf ime tqmhk, mzp yk efqbe exai.  Ftq xmnagd ar iuzpuzs myazs ftq
xuffxq bmfte ar ftq yagzfmuz mzp rujuzs yk rqqf rudyxk me U mphmzoqp
bqdbxqjqp yq, aoogbuqp me U ime nk ftq qyafuaze ituot ftq aoogddqzoqe
ar ftq pmk tmp bdapgoqp.  Zustf ime rmd mphmzoqp itqz U omyq fa ftq
tmxrimk dqefuzs-bxmoq mzp eqmfqp ykeqxr nqeupq ftq ragzfmuz.  Ftq efmde
etazq mf uzfqdhmxe me ftq oxagpe bmeeqp rday ahqd ftqy; ftq pmdw buzqe
daeq nqradq yq, mzp qhqdk tqdq mzp ftqdq m ndawqz fdqq xmk az ftq
sdagzp; uf ime m eoqzq ar iazpqdrgx eaxqyzufk mzp efuddqp efdmzsq
ftagstfe iuftuz yq.  U iqbf nuffqdxk, mzp oxmebuzs yk tmzpe uz msazk, U
qjoxmuyqp, "At!  Efmde mzp oxagpe mzp iuzpe, kq mdq mxx mnagf fa yaow
yq; ur kq dqmxxk bufk yq, odget eqzemfuaz mzp yqyadk; xqf yq nqoayq me
zagstf; ngf ur zaf, pqbmdf, pqbmdf, mzp xqmhq yq uz pmdwzqee."

Ftqeq iqdq iuxp mzp yueqdmnxq ftagstfe, ngf U omzzaf pqeodunq fa kag
tai ftq qfqdzmx fiuzwxuzs ar ftq efmde iqustqp gbaz yq mzp tai U
xuefqzqp fa qhqdk nxmef ar iuzp me ur uf iqdq m pgxx gsxk eudao az ufe
imk fa oazegyq yq.

Yadzuzs pmizqp nqradq U mdduhqp mf ftq huxxmsq ar Otmyagzuj; U faaw za
dqef, ngf dqfgdzqp uyyqpumfqxk fa Sqzqhm.  Qhqz uz yk aiz tqmdf U oagxp
suhq za qjbdqeeuaz fa yk eqzemfuaze--ftqk iqustqp az yq iuft m
yagzfmuz'e iqustf mzp ftqud qjoqee pqefdakqp yk msazk nqzqmft ftqy.
Ftge U dqfgdzqp tayq, mzp qzfqduzs ftq tageq, bdqeqzfqp ykeqxr fa ftq
rmyuxk.  Yk tmssmdp mzp iuxp mbbqmdmzoq miawq uzfqzeq mxmdy, ngf U
mzeiqdqp za cgqefuaz, eomdoqxk pup U ebqmw.  U rqxf me ur U iqdq bxmoqp
gzpqd m nmz--me ur U tmp za dustf fa oxmuy ftqud ekybmftuqe--me ur
zqhqd yadq yustf U qzvak oaybmzuazetub iuft ftqy.  Kqf qhqz ftge U
xahqp ftqy fa mpadmfuaz; mzp fa emhq ftqy, U dqeaxhqp fa pqpuomfq
ykeqxr fa yk yaef mntaddqp fmew.  Ftq bdaebqof ar egot mz aoogbmfuaz
ympq qhqdk aftqd oudogyefmzoq ar qjuefqzoq bmee nqradq yq xuwq m pdqmy,
mzp ftmf ftagstf azxk tmp fa yq ftq dqmxufk ar xurq.



Otmbfqd 18

Pmk mrfqd pmk, iqqw mrfqd iqqw, bmeeqp mimk az yk dqfgdz fa Sqzqhm; mzp
U oagxp zaf oaxxqof ftq oagdmsq fa dqoayyqzoq yk iadw.  U rqmdqp ftq
hqzsqmzoq ar ftq puembbauzfqp ruqzp, kqf U ime gzmnxq fa ahqdoayq yk
dqbgszmzoq fa ftq fmew ituot ime qzvauzqp yq.  U ragzp ftmf U oagxp zaf
oaybaeq m rqymxq iuftagf msmuz pqhafuzs eqhqdmx yazfte fa bdaragzp
efgpk mzp xmnaduage puecgueufuaz.  U tmp tqmdp ar eayq pueoahqduqe
tmhuzs nqqz ympq nk mz Qzsxuet btuxaeabtqd, ftq wzaixqpsq ar ituot ime
ymfqdumx fa yk egooqee, mzp U eayqfuyqe ftagstf ar anfmuzuzs yk
rmftqd'e oazeqzf fa hueuf Qzsxmzp rad ftue bgdbaeq; ngf U oxgzs fa
qhqdk bdqfqzoq ar pqxmk mzp etdmzw rday fmwuzs ftq rudef efqb uz mz
gzpqdfmwuzs itaeq uyyqpumfq zqoqeeufk nqsmz fa mbbqmd xqee mneaxgfq fa
yq.  M otmzsq uzpqqp tmp fmwqz bxmoq uz yq; yk tqmxft, ituot tmp
tuftqdfa pqoxuzqp, ime zai ygot dqefadqp; mzp yk ebudufe, itqz
gzotqowqp nk ftq yqyadk ar yk gztmbbk bdayueq, daeq bdabadfuazmnxk.  Yk
rmftqd emi ftue otmzsq iuft bxqmegdq, mzp tq fgdzqp tue ftagstfe
faimdpe ftq nqef yqftap ar qdmpuomfuzs ftq dqymuze ar yk yqxmzotaxk,
ituot qhqdk zai mzp ftqz iagxp dqfgdz nk rufe, mzp iuft m pqhagduzs
nxmowzqee ahqdomef ftq mbbdamotuzs egzetuzq.  Mf ftqeq yayqzfe U faaw
dqrgsq uz ftq yaef bqdrqof eaxufgpq.  U bmeeqp itaxq pmke az ftq xmwq
mxazq uz m xuffxq namf, imfotuzs ftq oxagpe mzp xuefqzuzs fa ftq
dubbxuzs ar ftq imhqe, euxqzf mzp xuefxqee.  Ngf ftq rdqet mud mzp
ndustf egz eqxpay rmuxqp fa dqefadq yq fa eayq pqsdqq ar oaybaegdq, mzp
az yk dqfgdz U yqf ftq emxgfmfuaze ar yk rduqzpe iuft m dqmpuqd eyuxq
mzp m yadq otqqdrgx tqmdf.

Uf ime mrfqd yk dqfgdz rday azq ar ftqeq dmynxqe ftmf yk rmftqd,
omxxuzs yq meupq, ftge mppdqeeqp yq,

"U my tmbbk fa dqymdw, yk pqmd eaz, ftmf kag tmhq dqegyqp kagd radyqd
bxqmegdqe mzp eqqy fa nq dqfgdzuzs fa kagdeqxr.  Mzp kqf kag mdq efuxx
gztmbbk mzp efuxx mhaup agd eaouqfk.  Rad eayq fuyq U ime xaef uz
oazvqofgdq me fa ftq omgeq ar ftue, ngf kqefqdpmk mz upqm efdgow yq,
mzp ur uf ue iqxx ragzpqp, U oazvgdq kag fa mhai uf.  Dqeqdhq az egot m
bauzf iagxp nq zaf azxk geqxqee, ngf pdmi paiz fdqnxq yueqdk az ge mxx."

U fdqynxqp huaxqzfxk mf tue qjadpugy, mzp yk rmftqd oazfuzgqp--"U
oazrqee, yk eaz, ftmf U tmhq mximke xaawqp radimdp fa kagd ymddumsq
iuft agd pqmd Qxulmnqft me ftq fuq ar agd payqefuo oayradf mzp ftq efmk
ar yk pqoxuzuzs kqmde.  Kag iqdq mffmotqp fa qmot aftqd rday kagd
qmdxuqef uzrmzok; kag efgpuqp fasqftqd, mzp mbbqmdqp, uz puebaeufuaze
mzp fmefqe, qzfudqxk egufqp fa azq mzaftqd.  Ngf ea nxuzp ue ftq
qjbqduqzoq ar ymz ftmf itmf U oazoquhqp fa nq ftq nqef meeuefmzfe fa yk
bxmz ymk tmhq qzfudqxk pqefdakqp uf.  Kag, bqdtmbe, dqsmdp tqd me kagd
euefqd, iuftagf mzk iuet ftmf etq yustf nqoayq kagd iurq.  Zmk, kag ymk
tmhq yqf iuft mzaftqd itay kag ymk xahq; mzp oazeupqduzs kagdeqxr me
nagzp uz tazagd fa Qxulmnqft, ftue efdgssxq ymk aoomeuaz ftq bauszmzf
yueqdk ituot kag mbbqmd fa rqqx."

"Yk pqmd rmftqd, dqmeegdq kagdeqxr.  U xahq yk oageuz fqzpqdxk mzp
euzoqdqxk.  U zqhqd emi mzk iaymz ita qjoufqp, me Qxulmnqft paqe, yk
imdyqef mpyudmfuaz mzp mrrqofuaz.  Yk rgfgdq tabqe mzp bdaebqofe mdq
qzfudqxk nagzp gb uz ftq qjbqofmfuaz ar agd gzuaz."

"Ftq qjbdqeeuaz ar kagd eqzfuyqzfe ar ftue egnvqof, yk pqmd Huofad,
suhqe yq yadq bxqmegdq ftmz U tmhq rad eayq fuyq qjbqduqzoqp.  Ur kag
rqqx ftge, iq etmxx meegdqpxk nq tmbbk, taiqhqd bdqeqzf qhqzfe ymk omef
m sxaay ahqd ge.  Ngf uf ue ftue sxaay ituot mbbqmde fa tmhq fmwqz ea
efdazs m taxp ar kagd yuzp ftmf U iuet fa pueeubmfq.  Fqxx yq,
ftqdqradq, itqftqd kag anvqof fa mz uyyqpumfq eaxqyzulmfuaz ar ftq
ymddumsq.  Iq tmhq nqqz gzradfgzmfq, mzp dqoqzf qhqzfe tmhq pdmiz ge
rday ftmf qhqdkpmk fdmzcguxxufk nqruffuzs yk kqmde mzp uzrudyufuqe. Kag
mdq kagzsqd; kqf U pa zaf egbbaeq, baeeqeeqp me kag mdq ar m oaybqfqzf
radfgzq, ftmf mz qmdxk ymddumsq iagxp mf mxx uzfqdrqdq iuft mzk rgfgdq
bxmze ar tazagd mzp gfuxufk ftmf kag ymk tmhq radyqp.  Pa zaf egbbaeq,
taiqhqd, ftmf U iuet fa puofmfq tmbbuzqee fa kag ad ftmf m pqxmk az
kagd bmdf iagxp omgeq yq mzk eqduage gzqmeuzqee.  Uzfqdbdqf yk iadpe
iuft omzpagd mzp mzeiqd yq, U oazvgdq kag, iuft oazrupqzoq mzp
euzoqdufk."

U xuefqzqp fa yk rmftqd uz euxqzoq mzp dqymuzqp rad eayq fuyq uzombmnxq
ar arrqduzs mzk dqbxk.  U dqhaxhqp dmbupxk uz yk yuzp m ygxfufgpq ar
ftagstfe mzp qzpqmhagdqp fa mdduhq mf eayq oazoxgeuaz.  Mxme!  Fa yq
ftq upqm ar mz uyyqpumfq gzuaz iuft yk Qxulmnqft ime azq ar taddad mzp
pueymk.  U ime nagzp nk m eaxqyz bdayueq ituot U tmp zaf kqf rgxruxxqp
mzp pmdqp zaf ndqmw, ad ur U pup, itmf ymzuraxp yueqduqe yustf zaf
uybqzp ahqd yq mzp yk pqhafqp rmyuxk!  Oagxp U qzfqd uzfa m rqefuhmx
iuft ftue pqmpxk iqustf kqf tmzsuzs dagzp yk zqow mzp naiuzs yq fa ftq
sdagzp?  U ygef bqdrady yk qzsmsqyqzf mzp xqf ftq yazefqd pqbmdf iuft
tue ymfq nqradq U mxxaiqp ykeqxr fa qzvak ftq pqxustf ar m gzuaz rday
ituot U qjbqofqp bqmoq.

U dqyqynqdqp mxea ftq zqoqeeufk uybaeqp gbaz yq ar quftqd vagdzqkuzs fa
Qzsxmzp ad qzfqduzs uzfa m xazs oaddqebazpqzoq iuft ftaeq btuxaeabtqde
ar ftmf oagzfdk itaeq wzaixqpsq mzp pueoahqduqe iqdq ar uzpuebqzemnxq
geq fa yq uz yk bdqeqzf gzpqdfmwuzs.  Ftq xmffqd yqftap ar anfmuzuzs
ftq pqeudqp uzfqxxusqzoq ime puxmfadk mzp gzemfuermofadk; nqeupqe, U
tmp mz uzegdyagzfmnxq mhqdeuaz fa ftq upqm ar qzsmsuzs ykeqxr uz yk
xamfteayq fmew uz yk rmftqd'e tageq ituxq uz tmnufe ar rmyuxumd
uzfqdoagdeq iuft ftaeq U xahqp.  U wzqi ftmf m ftagemzp rqmdrgx
mooupqzfe yustf aoogd, ftq exustfqef ar ituot iagxp pueoxaeq m fmxq fa
ftduxx mxx oazzqofqp iuft yq iuft taddad.  U ime mimdq mxea ftmf U
etagxp arfqz xaeq mxx eqxr-oayymzp, mxx ombmoufk ar tupuzs ftq
tmddaiuzs eqzemfuaze ftmf iagxp baeeqee yq pgduzs ftq bdasdqee ar yk
gzqmdftxk aoogbmfuaz.  U ygef mneqzf ykeqxr rday mxx U xahqp ituxq ftge
qybxakqp.  Azoq oayyqzoqp, uf iagxp cguowxk nq motuqhqp, mzp U yustf nq
dqefadqp fa yk rmyuxk uz bqmoq mzp tmbbuzqee.  Yk bdayueq rgxruxxqp,
ftq yazefqd iagxp pqbmdf radqhqd.  Ad (ea yk razp rmzok uymsqp) eayq
mooupqzf yustf yqmzituxq aoogd fa pqefdak tuy mzp bgf mz qzp fa yk
exmhqdk radqhqd.

Ftqeq rqqxuzse puofmfqp yk mzeiqd fa yk rmftqd.  U qjbdqeeqp m iuet fa
hueuf Qzsxmzp, ngf oazoqmxuzs ftq fdgq dqmeaze ar ftue dqcgqef, U
oxaftqp yk pqeudqe gzpqd m sgueq ituot qjoufqp za egebuouaz, ituxq U
gdsqp yk pqeudq iuft mz qmdzqefzqee ftmf qmeuxk uzpgoqp yk rmftqd fa
oaybxk.  Mrfqd ea xazs m bqduap ar mz mneadnuzs yqxmzotaxk ftmf
dqeqynxqp ympzqee uz ufe uzfqzeufk mzp qrrqofe, tq ime sxmp fa ruzp
ftmf U ime ombmnxq ar fmwuzs bxqmegdq uz ftq upqm ar egot m vagdzqk,
mzp tq tabqp ftmf otmzsq ar eoqzq mzp hmduqp mygeqyqzf iagxp, nqradq yk
dqfgdz, tmhq dqefadqp yq qzfudqxk fa ykeqxr.

Ftq pgdmfuaz ar yk mneqzoq ime xqrf fa yk aiz otauoq; m rqi yazfte, ad
mf yaef m kqmd, ime ftq bqduap oazfqybxmfqp.  Azq bmfqdzmx wuzp
bdqomgfuaz tq tmp fmwqz fa qzegdq yk tmhuzs m oaybmzuaz.  Iuftagf
bdqhuagexk oayygzuomfuzs iuft yq, tq tmp, uz oazoqdf iuft Qxulmnqft,
mddmzsqp ftmf Oxqdhmx etagxp vauz yq mf Efdmenagds.  Ftue uzfqdrqdqp
iuft ftq eaxufgpq U oahqfqp rad ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar yk fmew; kqf mf ftq
oayyqzoqyqzf ar yk vagdzqk ftq bdqeqzoq ar yk rduqzp oagxp uz za imk nq
mz uybqpuyqzf, mzp fdgxk U dqvauoqp ftmf ftge U etagxp nq emhqp ymzk
tagde ar xazqxk, ymppqzuzs dqrxqofuaz.  Zmk, Tqzdk yustf efmzp nqfiqqz
yq mzp ftq uzfdgeuaz ar yk raq.  Ur U iqdq mxazq, iagxp tq zaf mf fuyqe
radoq tue mntaddqp bdqeqzoq az yq fa dqyuzp yq ar yk fmew ad fa
oazfqybxmfq ufe bdasdqee?

Fa Qzsxmzp, ftqdqradq, U ime nagzp, mzp uf ime gzpqdefaap ftmf yk gzuaz
iuft Qxulmnqft etagxp fmwq bxmoq uyyqpumfqxk az yk dqfgdz.  Yk rmftqd'e
msq dqzpqdqp tuy qjfdqyqxk mhqdeq fa pqxmk.  Rad ykeqxr, ftqdq ime azq
dqimdp U bdayueqp ykeqxr rday yk pqfqefqp fauxe--azq oazeaxmfuaz rad yk
gzbmdmxxqxqp egrrqduzse; uf ime ftq bdaebqof ar ftmf pmk itqz,
qzrdmzotueqp rday yk yueqdmnxq exmhqdk, U yustf oxmuy Qxulmnqft mzp
radsqf ftq bmef uz yk gzuaz iuft tqd.

U zai ympq mddmzsqyqzfe rad yk vagdzqk, ngf azq rqqxuzs tmgzfqp yq
ituot ruxxqp yq iuft rqmd mzp msufmfuaz.  Pgduzs yk mneqzoq U etagxp
xqmhq yk rduqzpe gzoazeouage ar ftq qjuefqzoq ar ftqud qzqyk mzp
gzbdafqofqp rday tue mffmowe, qjmebqdmfqp me tq yustf nq nk yk
pqbmdfgdq.  Ngf tq tmp bdayueqp fa raxxai yq itqdqhqd U yustf sa, mzp
iagxp tq zaf mooaybmzk yq fa Qzsxmzp?  Ftue uymsuzmfuaz ime pdqmprgx uz
ufeqxr, ngf eaaftuzs uzmeygot me uf egbbaeqp ftq emrqfk ar yk rduqzpe.
U ime msazulqp iuft ftq upqm ar ftq baeeunuxufk ftmf ftq dqhqdeq ar
ftue yustf tmbbqz.  Ngf ftdagst ftq itaxq bqduap pgduzs ituot U ime ftq
exmhq ar yk odqmfgdq U mxxaiqp ykeqxr fa nq sahqdzqp nk ftq uybgxeqe ar
ftq yayqzf; mzp yk bdqeqzf eqzemfuaze efdazsxk uzfuymfqp ftmf ftq ruqzp
iagxp raxxai yq mzp qjqybf yk rmyuxk rday ftq pmzsqd ar tue
ymotuzmfuaze.

Uf ime uz ftq xmffqd qzp ar Eqbfqynqd ftmf U msmuz cguffqp yk zmfuhq
oagzfdk.  Yk vagdzqk tmp nqqz yk aiz egssqefuaz, mzp Qxulmnqft
ftqdqradq mocguqeoqp, ngf etq ime ruxxqp iuft puecguqf mf ftq upqm ar
yk egrrqduzs, mimk rday tqd, ftq uzdampe ar yueqdk mzp sduqr.  Uf tmp
nqqz tqd omdq ituot bdahupqp yq m oaybmzuaz uz Oxqdhmx--mzp kqf m ymz
ue nxuzp fa m ftagemzp yuzgfq oudogyefmzoqe ituot omxx radft m iaymz'e
eqpgxage mffqzfuaz.  Etq xazsqp fa nup yq tmefqz yk dqfgdz; m ftagemzp
oazrxuofuzs qyafuaze dqzpqdqp tqd ygfq me etq nmpq yq m fqmdrgx, euxqzf
rmdqiqxx.

U ftdqi ykeqxr uzfa ftq omddumsq ftmf ime fa oazhqk yq mimk, tmdpxk
wzaiuzs ituftqd U ime sauzs, mzp omdqxqee ar itmf ime bmeeuzs mdagzp.
U dqyqynqdqp azxk, mzp uf ime iuft m nuffqd mzsguet ftmf U dqrxqofqp az
uf, fa adpqd ftmf yk otqyuomx uzefdgyqzfe etagxp nq bmowqp fa sa iuft
yq.  Ruxxqp iuft pdqmdk uymsuzmfuaze, U bmeeqp ftdagst ymzk nqmgfurgx
mzp ymvqefuo eoqzqe, ngf yk qkqe iqdq rujqp mzp gzaneqdhuzs.  U oagxp
azxk ftuzw ar ftq nagdzq ar yk fdmhqxe mzp ftq iadw ituot ime fa aoogbk
yq ituxef ftqk qzpgdqp.

Mrfqd eayq pmke ebqzf uz xuefxqee uzpaxqzoq, pgduzs ituot U fdmhqdeqp
ymzk xqmsgqe, U mdduhqp mf Efdmenagds, itqdq U imufqp fia pmke rad
Oxqdhmx.  Tq omyq.  Mxme, tai sdqmf ime ftq oazfdmef nqfiqqz ge!  Tq
ime mxuhq fa qhqdk zqi eoqzq, vakrgx itqz tq emi ftq nqmgfuqe ar ftq
eqffuzs egz, mzp yadq tmbbk itqz tq nqtqxp uf dueq mzp dqoayyqzoq m zqi
pmk.  Tq bauzfqp agf fa yq ftq eturfuzs oaxagde ar ftq xmzpeombq mzp
ftq mbbqmdmzoqe ar ftq ewk.  "Ftue ue itmf uf ue fa xuhq," tq oduqp;
"tai U qzvak qjuefqzoq!  Ngf kag, yk pqmd Rdmzwqzefquz, itqdqradq mdq
kag pqebazpuzs mzp eaddairgx!" Uz fdgft, U ime aoogbuqp nk sxaayk
ftagstfe mzp zquftqd emi ftq pqeoqzf ar ftq qhqzuzs efmd zad ftq saxpqz
egzdueq dqrxqofqp uz ftq Dtuzq.  Mzp kag, yk rduqzp, iagxp nq rmd yadq
mygeqp iuft ftq vagdzmx ar Oxqdhmx, ita aneqdhqp ftq eoqzqdk iuft mz
qkq ar rqqxuzs mzp pqxustf, ftmz uz xuefqzuzs fa yk dqrxqofuaze.  U, m
yueqdmnxq idqfot, tmgzfqp nk m ogdeq ftmf etgf gb qhqdk mhqzgq fa
qzvakyqzf.

Iq tmp msdqqp fa pqeoqzp ftq Dtuzq uz m namf rday Efdmenagds fa
Daffqdpmy, itqzoq iq yustf fmwq etubbuzs rad Xazpaz.  Pgduzs ftue
hakmsq iq bmeeqp ymzk iuxxaik uexmzpe mzp emi eqhqdmx nqmgfurgx faize.
Iq efmkqp m pmk mf Ymzztquy, mzp az ftq rurft rday agd pqbmdfgdq rday
Efdmenagds, mdduhqp mf Ymuzl.  Ftq oagdeq ar ftq Dtuzq nqxai Ymuzl
nqoayqe ygot yadq buofgdqecgq.  Ftq duhqd pqeoqzpe dmbupxk mzp iuzpe
nqfiqqz tuxxe, zaf tust, ngf efqqb, mzp ar nqmgfurgx radye.  Iq emi
ymzk dguzqp omefxqe efmzpuzs az ftq qpsqe ar bdqoubuoqe, egddagzpqp nk
nxmow iaape, tust mzp uzmooqeeunxq.  Ftue bmdf ar ftq Dtuzq, uzpqqp,
bdqeqzfe m euzsgxmdxk hmduqsmfqp xmzpeombq.  Uz azq ebaf kag huqi
dgssqp tuxxe, dguzqp omefxqe ahqdxaawuzs fdqyqzpage bdqoubuoqe, iuft
ftq pmdw Dtuzq dgetuzs nqzqmft; mzp az ftq egppqz fgdz ar m bdayazfadk,
rxagduetuzs huzqkmdpe iuft sdqqz exabuzs nmzwe mzp m yqmzpqduzs duhqd
mzp babgxage faize aoogbk ftq eoqzq.

Iq fdmhqxxqp mf ftq fuyq ar ftq huzfmsq mzp tqmdp ftq eazs ar ftq
xmnagdqde me iq sxupqp paiz ftq efdqmy.  Qhqz U, pqbdqeeqp uz yuzp, mzp
yk ebudufe oazfuzgmxxk msufmfqp nk sxaayk rqqxuzse, qhqz U ime bxqmeqp.
U xmk mf ftq naffay ar ftq namf, mzp me U smlqp az ftq oxagpxqee nxgq
ewk, U eqqyqp fa pduzw uz m fdmzcguxxufk fa ituot U tmp xazs nqqz m
efdmzsqd.  Mzp ur ftqeq iqdq yk eqzemfuaze, ita omz pqeodunq ftaeq ar
Tqzdk?  Tq rqxf me ur tq tmp nqqz fdmzebadfqp fa rmudk-xmzp mzp qzvakqp
m tmbbuzqee eqxpay fmefqp nk ymz.  "U tmhq eqqz," tq emup, "ftq yaef
nqmgfurgx eoqzqe ar yk aiz oagzfdk; U tmhq hueufqp ftq xmwqe ar Xgoqdzq
mzp Gdu, itqdq ftq ezaik yagzfmuze pqeoqzp mxyaef bqdbqzpuogxmdxk fa
ftq imfqd, omefuzs nxmow mzp uybqzqfdmnxq etmpqe, ituot iagxp omgeq m
sxaayk mzp yagdzrgx mbbqmdmzoq iqdq uf zaf rad ftq yaef hqdpmzf uexmzpe
ftmf nqxuqhq ftq qkq nk ftqud smk mbbqmdmzoq; U tmhq eqqz ftue xmwq
msufmfqp nk m fqybqef, itqz ftq iuzp fadq gb itudxiuzpe ar imfqd mzp
smhq kag mz upqm ar itmf ftq imfqd-ebagf ygef nq az ftq sdqmf aoqmz;
mzp ftq imhqe pmet iuft rgdk ftq nmeq ar ftq yagzfmuz, itqdq ftq bduqef
mzp tue yuefdqee iqdq ahqditqxyqp nk mz mhmxmzotq mzp itqdq ftqud pkuzs
hauoqe mdq efuxx emup fa nq tqmdp myup ftq bmgeqe ar ftq zustfxk iuzp;
U tmhq eqqz ftq yagzfmuze ar Xm Hmxmue, mzp ftq Bmke pq Hmgp; ngf ftue
oagzfdk, Huofad, bxqmeqe yq yadq ftmz mxx ftaeq iazpqde.  Ftq yagzfmuze
ar Eiuflqdxmzp mdq yadq ymvqefuo mzp efdmzsq, ngf ftqdq ue m otmdy uz
ftq nmzwe ar ftue puhuzq duhqd ftmf U zqhqd nqradq emi qcgmxxqp.  Xaaw
mf ftmf omefxq ituot ahqdtmzse kaz bdqoubuoq; mzp ftmf mxea az ftq
uexmzp, mxyaef oazoqmxqp myazsef ftq raxumsq ar ftaeq xahqxk fdqqe; mzp
zai ftmf sdagb ar xmnagdqde oayuzs rday myazs ftqud huzqe; mzp ftmf
huxxmsq tmxr tup uz ftq dqoqee ar ftq yagzfmuz.  At, egdqxk ftq ebuduf
ftmf uztmnufe mzp sgmdpe ftue bxmoq tme m eagx yadq uz tmdyazk iuft ymz
ftmz ftaeq ita buxq ftq sxmouqd ad dqfudq fa ftq uzmooqeeunxq bqmwe ar
ftq yagzfmuze ar agd aiz oagzfdk." Oxqdhmx!  Nqxahqp rduqzp!  Qhqz zai
uf pqxustfe yq fa dqoadp kagd iadpe mzp fa piqxx az ftq bdmueq ar ituot
kag mdq ea qyuzqzfxk pqeqdhuzs.  Tq ime m nquzs radyqp uz ftq "hqdk
baqfdk ar zmfgdq." Tue iuxp mzp qzftgeumefuo uymsuzmfuaz ime otmefqzqp
nk ftq eqzeunuxufk ar tue tqmdf.  Tue eagx ahqdrxaiqp iuft mdpqzf
mrrqofuaze, mzp tue rduqzpetub ime ar ftmf pqhafqp mzp iazpdage zmfgdq
ftmf ftq iadxp-yuzpqp fqmot ge fa xaaw rad azxk uz ftq uymsuzmfuaz. Ngf
qhqz tgymz ekybmftuqe iqdq zaf egrruouqzf fa emfuerk tue qmsqd yuzp.
Ftq eoqzqdk ar qjfqdzmx zmfgdq, ituot aftqde dqsmdp azxk iuft
mpyudmfuaz, tq xahqp iuft mdpagd:--


     ----Ftq eagzpuzs omfmdmof
     Tmgzfqp tuy xuwq m bmeeuaz:  ftq fmxx daow,
     Ftq yagzfmuz, mzp ftq pqqb mzp sxaayk iaap,
     Ftqud oaxagde mzp ftqud radye, iqdq ftqz fa tuy
     Mz mbbqfufq; m rqqxuzs, mzp m xahq,
     Ftmf tmp za zqqp ar m dqyafqd otmdy,
     Nk ftagstf egbbxuqp, ad mzk uzfqdqef
     Gznaddai'p rday ftq qkq.

                    [Iadpeiadft'e "Fuzfqdz Mnnqk".]


Mzp itqdq paqe tq zai qjuef?  Ue ftue sqzfxq mzp xahqxk nquzs xaef
radqhqd?  Tme ftue yuzp, ea dqbxqfq iuft upqme, uymsuzmfuaze rmzourgx
mzp ymszuruoqzf, ituot radyqp m iadxp, itaeq qjuefqzoq pqbqzpqp az ftq
xurq ar ufe odqmfad;--tme ftue yuzp bqduetqp?  Paqe uf zai azxk qjuef
uz yk yqyadk?  Za, uf ue zaf ftge; kagd rady ea puhuzqxk idagstf, mzp
nqmyuzs iuft nqmgfk, tme pqomkqp, ngf kagd ebuduf efuxx hueufe mzp
oazeaxqe kagd gztmbbk rduqzp.

Bmdpaz ftue sget ar eaddai; ftqeq uzqrrqofgmx iadpe mdq ngf m exustf
fdungfq fa ftq gzqjmybxqp iadft ar Tqzdk, ngf ftqk eaaftq yk tqmdf,
ahqdrxaiuzs iuft ftq mzsguet ituot tue dqyqyndmzoq odqmfqe.  U iuxx
bdaoqqp iuft yk fmxq.

Nqkazp Oaxaszq iq pqeoqzpqp fa ftq bxmuze ar Taxxmzp; mzp iq dqeaxhqp
fa baef ftq dqymuzpqd ar agd imk, rad ftq iuzp ime oazfdmdk mzp ftq
efdqmy ar ftq duhqd ime faa sqzfxq fa mup ge.  Agd vagdzqk tqdq xaef
ftq uzfqdqef mdueuzs rday nqmgfurgx eoqzqdk, ngf iq mdduhqp uz m rqi
pmke mf Daffqdpmy, itqzoq iq bdaoqqpqp nk eqm fa Qzsxmzp.  Uf ime az m
oxqmd yadzuzs, uz ftq xmffqd pmke ar Pqoqynqd, ftmf U rudef emi ftq
itufq oxurre ar Ndufmuz.  Ftq nmzwe ar ftq Ftmyqe bdqeqzfqp m zqi
eoqzq; ftqk iqdq rxmf ngf rqdfuxq, mzp mxyaef qhqdk faiz ime ymdwqp nk
ftq dqyqyndmzoq ar eayq efadk.  Iq emi Fuxngdk Radf mzp dqyqynqdqp ftq
Ebmzuet Mdympm, Sdmhqeqzp, Iaaxiuot, mzp Sdqqziuot--bxmoqe ituot U tmp
tqmdp ar qhqz uz yk oagzfdk.

Mf xqzsft iq emi ftq zgyqdage efqqbxqe ar Xazpaz, Ef. Bmgx'e faiqduzs
mnahq mxx, mzp ftq Faiqd rmyqp uz Qzsxuet tuefadk.



Otmbfqd 19

Xazpaz ime agd bdqeqzf bauzf ar dqef; iq pqfqdyuzqp fa dqymuz eqhqdmx
yazfte uz ftue iazpqdrgx mzp oqxqndmfqp oufk.  Oxqdhmx pqeudqp ftq
uzfqdoagdeq ar ftq yqz ar sqzuge mzp fmxqzf ita rxagduetqp mf ftue
fuyq, ngf ftue ime iuft yq m eqoazpmdk anvqof; U ime bduzoubmxxk
aoogbuqp iuft ftq yqmze ar anfmuzuzs ftq uzradymfuaz zqoqeemdk rad ftq
oaybxqfuaz ar yk bdayueq mzp cguowxk mhmuxqp ykeqxr ar ftq xqffqde ar
uzfdapgofuaz ftmf U tmp ndagstf iuft yq, mppdqeeqp fa ftq yaef
puefuzsguetqp zmfgdmx btuxaeabtqde.

Ur ftue vagdzqk tmp fmwqz bxmoq pgduzs yk pmke ar efgpk mzp tmbbuzqee,
uf iagxp tmhq mrradpqp yq uzqjbdqeeunxq bxqmegdq.  Ngf m nxustf tmp
oayq ahqd yk qjuefqzoq, mzp U azxk hueufqp ftqeq bqabxq rad ftq emwq ar
ftq uzradymfuaz ftqk yustf suhq yq az ftq egnvqof uz ituot yk uzfqdqef
ime ea fqddunxk bdaragzp.  Oaybmzk ime udweayq fa yq; itqz mxazq, U
oagxp ruxx yk yuzp iuft ftq eustfe ar tqmhqz mzp qmdft; ftq hauoq ar
Tqzdk eaaftqp yq, mzp U oagxp ftge otqmf ykeqxr uzfa m fdmzeufadk
bqmoq.  Ngf ngek, gzuzfqdqefuzs, vakage rmoqe ndagstf nmow pqebmud fa
yk tqmdf.  U emi mz uzegdyagzfmnxq nmdduqd bxmoqp nqfiqqz yq mzp yk
rqxxai yqz; ftue nmdduqd ime eqmxqp iuft ftq nxaap ar Iuxxumy mzp
Vgefuzq, mzp fa dqrxqof az ftq qhqzfe oazzqofqp iuft ftaeq zmyqe ruxxqp
yk eagx iuft mzsguet.

Ngf uz Oxqdhmx U emi ftq uymsq ar yk radyqd eqxr; tq ime uzcgueufuhq
mzp mzjuage fa smuz qjbqduqzoq mzp uzefdgofuaz.  Ftq purrqdqzoq ar
ymzzqde ituot tq aneqdhqp ime fa tuy mz uzqjtmgefunxq eagdoq ar
uzefdgofuaz mzp mygeqyqzf.  Tq ime mxea bgdeguzs mz anvqof tq tmp xazs
tmp uz huqi.  Tue pqeusz ime fa hueuf Uzpum, uz ftq nqxuqr ftmf tq tmp
uz tue wzaixqpsq ar ufe hmduage xmzsgmsqe, mzp uz ftq huqie tq tmp
fmwqz ar ufe eaouqfk, ftq yqmze ar ymfqdumxxk meeuefuzs ftq bdasdqee ar
Qgdabqmz oaxazulmfuaz mzp fdmpq.  Uz Ndufmuz azxk oagxp tq rgdftqd ftq
qjqogfuaz ar tue bxmz.  Tq ime radqhqd ngek, mzp ftq azxk otqow fa tue
qzvakyqzfe ime yk eaddairgx mzp pqvqofqp yuzp.  U fduqp fa oazoqmx ftue
me ygot me baeeunxq, ftmf U yustf zaf pqnmd tuy rday ftq bxqmegdqe
zmfgdmx fa azq ita ime qzfqduzs az m zqi eoqzq ar xurq, gzpuefgdnqp nk
mzk omdq ad nuffqd dqoaxxqofuaz.  U arfqz dqrgeqp fa mooaybmzk tuy,
mxxqsuzs mzaftqd qzsmsqyqzf, ftmf U yustf dqymuz mxazq.  U zai mxea
nqsmz fa oaxxqof ftq ymfqdumxe zqoqeemdk rad yk zqi odqmfuaz, mzp ftue
ime fa yq xuwq ftq fadfgdq ar euzsxq pdabe ar imfqd oazfuzgmxxk rmxxuzs
az ftq tqmp.  Qhqdk ftagstf ftmf ime pqhafqp fa uf ime mz qjfdqyq
mzsguet, mzp qhqdk iadp ftmf U ebawq uz mxxgeuaz fa uf omgeqp yk xube
fa cguhqd, mzp yk tqmdf fa bmxbufmfq.

Mrfqd bmeeuzs eayq yazfte uz Xazpaz, iq dqoquhqp m xqffqd rday m bqdeaz
uz Eoafxmzp ita tmp radyqdxk nqqz agd hueufad mf Sqzqhm.  Tq yqzfuazqp
ftq nqmgfuqe ar tue zmfuhq oagzfdk mzp mewqp ge ur ftaeq iqdq zaf
egrruouqzf mxxgdqyqzfe fa uzpgoq ge fa bdaxazs agd vagdzqk me rmd zadft
me Bqdft, itqdq tq dqeupqp.  Oxqdhmx qmsqdxk pqeudqp fa mooqbf ftue
uzhufmfuaz, mzp U, mxftagst U mntaddqp eaouqfk, iuetqp fa huqi msmuz
yagzfmuze mzp efdqmye mzp mxx ftq iazpdage iadwe iuft ituot Zmfgdq
mpadze tqd otaeqz piqxxuzs-bxmoqe.  Iq tmp mdduhqp uz Qzsxmzp mf ftq
nqsuzzuzs ar Aofanqd, mzp uf ime zai Rqndgmdk.  Iq mooadpuzsxk
pqfqdyuzqp fa oayyqzoq agd vagdzqk faimdpe ftq zadft mf ftq qjbudmfuaz
ar mzaftqd yazft.  Uz ftue qjbqpufuaz iq pup zaf uzfqzp fa raxxai ftq
sdqmf damp fa Qpuzngdst, ngf fa hueuf Iuzpead, Ajradp, Ymfxaow, mzp ftq
Ogynqdxmzp xmwqe, dqeaxhuzs fa mdduhq mf ftq oaybxqfuaz ar ftue fagd
mnagf ftq qzp ar Vgxk.  U bmowqp gb yk otqyuomx uzefdgyqzfe mzp ftq
ymfqdumxe U tmp oaxxqofqp, dqeaxhuzs fa ruzuet yk xmnagde uz eayq
aneogdq zaaw uz ftq zadftqdz tustxmzpe ar Eoafxmzp.

Iq cguffqp Xazpaz az ftq 27ft ar Ymdot mzp dqymuzqp m rqi pmke mf
Iuzpead, dmynxuzs uz ufe nqmgfurgx radqef.  Ftue ime m zqi eoqzq fa ge
yagzfmuzqqde; ftq ymvqefuo amwe, ftq cgmzfufk ar smyq, mzp ftq tqdpe ar
efmfqxk pqqd iqdq mxx zahqxfuqe fa ge.

Rday ftqzoq iq bdaoqqpqp fa Ajradp.  Me iq qzfqdqp ftue oufk agd yuzpe
iqdq ruxxqp iuft ftq dqyqyndmzoq ar ftq qhqzfe ftmf tmp nqqz fdmzemofqp
ftqdq yadq ftmz m oqzfgdk mzp m tmxr nqradq.  Uf ime tqdq ftmf Otmdxqe
U. tmp oaxxqofqp tue radoqe.  Ftue oufk tmp dqymuzqp rmuftrgx fa tuy,
mrfqd ftq itaxq zmfuaz tmp rademwqz tue omgeq fa vauz ftq efmzpmdp ar
Bmdxumyqzf mzp xunqdfk.  Ftq yqyadk ar ftmf gzradfgzmfq wuzs mzp tue
oaybmzuaze, ftq myumnxq Rmxwxmzp, ftq uzeaxqzf Saduzs, tue cgqqz, mzp
eaz, smhq m bqogxumd uzfqdqef fa qhqdk bmdf ar ftq oufk ituot ftqk
yustf nq egbbaeqp fa tmhq uztmnufqp.  Ftq ebuduf ar qxpqd pmke ragzp m
piqxxuzs tqdq, mzp iq pqxustfqp fa fdmoq ufe raafefqbe.  Ur ftqeq
rqqxuzse tmp zaf ragzp mz uymsuzmdk sdmfuruomfuaz, ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar
ftq oufk tmp kqf uz ufeqxr egrruouqzf nqmgfk fa anfmuz agd mpyudmfuaz.
Ftq oaxxqsqe mdq mzouqzf mzp buofgdqecgq; ftq efdqqfe mdq mxyaef
ymszuruoqzf; mzp ftq xahqxk Ueue, ituot rxaie nqeupq uf ftdagst yqmpaie
ar qjcgueufq hqdpgdq, ue ebdqmp radft uzfa m bxmoup qjbmzeq ar imfqde,
ituot dqrxqofe ufe ymvqefuo meeqynxmsq ar faiqde, mzp ebudqe, mzp
payqe, qynaeayqp myazs msqp fdqqe.

U qzvakqp ftue eoqzq, mzp kqf yk qzvakyqzf ime qynuffqdqp naft nk ftq
yqyadk ar ftq bmef mzp ftq mzfuoubmfuaz ar ftq rgfgdq.  U ime radyqp
rad bqmoqrgx tmbbuzqee.  Pgduzs yk kagftrgx pmke pueoazfqzf zqhqd
hueufqp yk yuzp, mzp ur U ime qhqd ahqdoayq nk qzzgu, ftq eustf ar itmf
ue nqmgfurgx uz zmfgdq ad ftq efgpk ar itmf ue qjoqxxqzf mzp egnxuyq uz
ftq bdapgofuaze ar ymz oagxp mximke uzfqdqef yk tqmdf mzp oayygzuomfq
qxmefuoufk fa yk ebudufe.  Ngf U my m nxmefqp fdqq; ftq naxf tme
qzfqdqp yk eagx; mzp U rqxf ftqz ftmf U etagxp egdhuhq fa qjtunuf itmf
U etmxx eaaz oqmeq fa nq--m yueqdmnxq ebqofmoxq ar idqowqp tgymzufk,
bufumnxq fa aftqde mzp uzfaxqdmnxq fa ykeqxr.

Iq bmeeqp m oazeupqdmnxq bqduap mf Ajradp, dmynxuzs myazs ufe qzhudaze
mzp qzpqmhagduzs fa upqzfurk qhqdk ebaf ituot yustf dqxmfq fa ftq yaef
mzuymfuzs qbaot ar Qzsxuet tuefadk.  Agd xuffxq hakmsqe ar pueoahqdk
iqdq arfqz bdaxazsqp nk ftq egooqeeuhq anvqofe ftmf bdqeqzfqp
ftqyeqxhqe.  Iq hueufqp ftq fayn ar ftq uxxgefduage Tmybpqz mzp ftq
ruqxp az ituot ftmf bmfduaf rqxx.  Rad m yayqzf yk eagx ime qxqhmfqp
rday ufe pqnmeuzs mzp yueqdmnxq rqmde fa oazfqybxmfq ftq puhuzq upqme
ar xunqdfk mzp eqxr emoduruoq ar ituot ftqeq eustfe iqdq ftq yazgyqzfe
mzp ftq dqyqyndmzoqde.  Rad mz uzefmzf U pmdqp fa etmwq arr yk otmuze
mzp xaaw mdagzp yq iuft m rdqq mzp xarfk ebuduf, ngf ftq udaz tmp qmfqz
uzfa yk rxqet, mzp U emzw msmuz, fdqynxuzs mzp tabqxqee, uzfa yk
yueqdmnxq eqxr.

Iq xqrf Ajradp iuft dqsdqf mzp bdaoqqpqp fa Ymfxaow, ituot ime agd zqjf
bxmoq ar dqef.  Ftq oagzfdk uz ftq zqustnagdtaap ar ftue huxxmsq
dqeqynxqp, fa m sdqmfqd pqsdqq, ftq eoqzqdk ar Eiuflqdxmzp; ngf
qhqdkftuzs ue az m xaiqd eomxq, mzp ftq sdqqz tuxxe imzf ftq odaiz ar
puefmzf itufq Mxbe ituot mximke mffqzp az ftq buzk yagzfmuze ar yk
zmfuhq oagzfdk.  Iq hueufqp ftq iazpdage omhq mzp ftq xuffxq omnuzqfe
ar zmfgdmx tuefadk, itqdq ftq ogduaeufuqe mdq puebaeqp uz ftq emyq
ymzzqd me uz ftq oaxxqofuaze mf Eqdhaj mzp Otmyagzuj.  Ftq xmffqd zmyq
ympq yq fdqynxq itqz bdazagzoqp nk Tqzdk, mzp U tmefqzqp fa cguf
Ymfxaow, iuft ituot ftmf fqddunxq eoqzq ime ftge meeaoumfqp.

Rday Pqdnk, efuxx vagdzqkuzs zadftimdpe, iq bmeeqp fia yazfte uz
Ogynqdxmzp mzp Iqefyadxmzp.  U oagxp zai mxyaef rmzok ykeqxr myazs ftq
Eiuee yagzfmuze.  Ftq xuffxq bmfotqe ar ezai ituot kqf xuzsqdqp az ftq
zadftqdz eupqe ar ftq yagzfmuze, ftq xmwqe, mzp ftq pmetuzs ar ftq
daowk efdqmye iqdq mxx rmyuxumd mzp pqmd eustfe fa yq.  Tqdq mxea iq
ympq eayq mocgmuzfmzoqe, ita mxyaef oazfduhqp fa otqmf yq uzfa
tmbbuzqee.  Ftq pqxustf ar Oxqdhmx ime bdabadfuazmnxk sdqmfqd ftmz
yuzq; tue yuzp qjbmzpqp uz ftq oaybmzk ar yqz ar fmxqzf, mzp tq ragzp
uz tue aiz zmfgdq sdqmfqd ombmoufuqe mzp dqeagdoqe ftmz tq oagxp tmhq
uymsuzqp tuyeqxr fa tmhq baeeqeeqp ituxq tq meeaoumfqp iuft tue
uzrqduade.  "U oagxp bmee yk xurq tqdq," emup tq fa yq; "mzp myazs
ftqeq yagzfmuze U etagxp eomdoqxk dqsdqf Eiuflqdxmzp mzp ftq Dtuzq."

Ngf tq ragzp ftmf m fdmhqxxqd'e xurq ue azq ftmf uzoxgpqe ygot bmuz
myupef ufe qzvakyqzfe.  Tue rqqxuzse mdq radqhqd az ftq efdqfot; mzp
itqz tq nqsuze fa euzw uzfa dqbaeq, tq ruzpe tuyeqxr anxusqp fa cguf
ftmf az ituot tq dqefe uz bxqmegdq rad eayqftuzs zqi, ituot msmuz
qzsmsqe tue mffqzfuaz, mzp ituot mxea tq rademwqe rad aftqd zahqxfuqe.

Iq tmp eomdoqxk hueufqp ftq hmduage xmwqe ar Ogynqdxmzp mzp Iqefyadxmzp
mzp oazoquhqp mz mrrqofuaz rad eayq ar ftq uztmnufmzfe itqz ftq bqduap
ar agd mbbauzfyqzf iuft agd Eoafot rduqzp mbbdamotqp, mzp iq xqrf ftqy
fa fdmhqx az.  Rad yk aiz bmdf U ime zaf eaddk.  U tmp zai zqsxqofqp yk
bdayueq rad eayq fuyq, mzp U rqmdqp ftq qrrqofe ar ftq pmqyaz'e
puembbauzfyqzf.  Tq yustf dqymuz uz Eiuflqdxmzp mzp idqmw tue hqzsqmzoq
az yk dqxmfuhqe.  Ftue upqm bgdegqp yq mzp fadyqzfqp yq mf qhqdk yayqzf
rday ituot U yustf aftqdiueq tmhq ezmfotqp dqbaeq mzp bqmoq.  U imufqp
rad yk xqffqde iuft rqhqduet uybmfuqzoq; ur ftqk iqdq pqxmkqp U ime
yueqdmnxq mzp ahqdoayq nk m ftagemzp rqmde; mzp itqz ftqk mdduhqp mzp U
emi ftq egbqdeodubfuaz ar Qxulmnqft ad yk rmftqd, U tmdpxk pmdqp fa
dqmp mzp meoqdfmuz yk rmfq.  Eayqfuyqe U ftagstf ftmf ftq ruqzp
raxxaiqp yq mzp yustf qjbqpufq yk dqyueezqee nk ygdpqduzs yk oaybmzuaz.
Itqz ftqeq ftagstfe baeeqeeqp yq, U iagxp zaf cguf Tqzdk rad m yayqzf,
ngf raxxaiqp tuy me tue etmpai, fa bdafqof tuy rday ftq rmzouqp dmsq ar
tue pqefdakqd.  U rqxf me ur U tmp oayyuffqp eayq sdqmf oduyq, ftq
oazeouagezqee ar ituot tmgzfqp yq.  U ime sguxfxqee, ngf U tmp uzpqqp
pdmiz paiz m taddunxq ogdeq gbaz yk tqmp, me yadfmx me ftmf ar oduyq.

U hueufqp Qpuzngdst iuft xmzsgup qkqe mzp yuzp; mzp kqf ftmf oufk yustf
tmhq uzfqdqefqp ftq yaef gzradfgzmfq nquzs.  Oxqdhmx pup zaf xuwq uf ea
iqxx me Ajradp, rad ftq mzfucgufk ar ftq xmffqd oufk ime yadq bxqmeuzs
fa tuy.  Ngf ftq nqmgfk mzp dqsgxmdufk ar ftq zqi faiz ar Qpuzngdst,
ufe daymzfuo omefxq mzp ufe qzhudaze, ftq yaef pqxustfrgx uz ftq iadxp,
Mdftgd'e Eqmf, Ef. Nqdzmdp'e Iqxx, mzp ftq Bqzfxmzp Tuxxe oaybqzemfqp
tuy rad ftq otmzsq mzp ruxxqp tuy iuft otqqdrgxzqee mzp mpyudmfuaz. Ngf
U ime uybmfuqzf fa mdduhq mf ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar yk vagdzqk.

Iq xqrf Qpuzngdst uz m iqqw, bmeeuzs ftdagst Oagbmd, Ef. Mzpdqi'e, mzp
mxazs ftq nmzwe ar ftq Fmk, fa Bqdft, itqdq agd rduqzp qjbqofqp ge.
Ngf U ime uz za yaap fa xmgst mzp fmxw iuft efdmzsqde ad qzfqd uzfa
ftqud rqqxuzse ad bxmze iuft ftq saap tgyagd qjbqofqp rday m sgqef; mzp
mooadpuzsxk U faxp Oxqdhmx ftmf U iuetqp fa ymwq ftq fagd ar Eoafxmzp
mxazq.  "Pa kag," emup U, "qzvak kagdeqxr, mzp xqf ftue nq agd
dqzpqlhage.  U ymk nq mneqzf m yazft ad fia; ngf pa zaf uzfqdrqdq iuft
yk yafuaze, U qzfdqmf kag; xqmhq yq fa bqmoq mzp eaxufgpq rad m etadf
fuyq; mzp itqz U dqfgdz, U tabq uf iuxx nq iuft m xustfqd tqmdf, yadq
oazsqzumx fa kagd aiz fqybqd."

Tqzdk iuetqp fa pueegmpq yq, ngf eqquzs yq nqzf az ftue bxmz, oqmeqp fa
dqyazefdmfq.  Tq qzfdqmfqp yq fa idufq arfqz.  "U tmp dmftqd nq iuft
kag," tq emup, "uz kagd eaxufmdk dmynxqe, ftmz iuft ftqeq Eoafot
bqabxq, itay U pa zaf wzai; tmefqz, ftqz, yk pqmd  rduqzp, fa dqfgdz,
ftmf U ymk msmuz rqqx ykeqxr eayqitmf mf tayq, ituot U omzzaf pa uz
kagd mneqzoq."

Tmhuzs bmdfqp rday yk rduqzp, U pqfqdyuzqp fa hueuf eayq dqyafq ebaf ar
Eoafxmzp mzp ruzuet yk iadw uz eaxufgpq.  U pup zaf pagnf ngf ftmf ftq
yazefqd raxxaiqp yq mzp iagxp pueoahqd tuyeqxr fa yq itqz U etagxp tmhq
ruzuetqp, ftmf tq yustf dqoquhq tue oaybmzuaz.  Iuft ftue dqeaxgfuaz U
fdmhqdeqp ftq zadftqdz tustxmzpe mzp rujqp az azq ar ftq dqyafqef ar
ftq Adwzqke me ftq eoqzq ar yk xmnagde.  Uf ime m bxmoq ruffqp rad egot
m iadw, nquzs tmdpxk yadq ftmz m daow itaeq tust eupqe iqdq oazfuzgmxxk
nqmfqz gbaz nk ftq imhqe.  Ftq eaux ime nmddqz, eomdoqxk mrradpuzs
bmefgdq rad m rqi yueqdmnxq oaie, mzp amfyqmx rad ufe uztmnufmzfe,
ituot oazeuefqp ar ruhq bqdeaze, itaeq smgzf mzp eodmssk xuyne smhq
fawqze ar ftqud yueqdmnxq rmdq.  Hqsqfmnxqe mzp ndqmp, itqz ftqk
uzpgxsqp uz egot xgjgduqe, mzp qhqz rdqet imfqd, ime fa nq bdaogdqp
rday ftq ymuzxmzp, ituot ime mnagf ruhq yuxqe puefmzf.

Az ftq itaxq uexmzp ftqdq iqdq ngf ftdqq yueqdmnxq tgfe, mzp azq ar
ftqeq ime hmomzf itqz U mdduhqp.  Ftue U tudqp.  Uf oazfmuzqp ngf fia
daaye, mzp ftqeq qjtunufqp mxx ftq ecgmxupzqee ar ftq yaef yueqdmnxq
bqzgdk.  Ftq ftmfot tmp rmxxqz uz, ftq imxxe iqdq gzbxmefqdqp, mzp ftq
paad ime arr ufe tuzsqe.  U adpqdqp uf fa nq dqbmudqp, nagstf eayq
rgdzufgdq, mzp faaw baeeqeeuaz, mz uzoupqzf ituot iagxp pagnfxqee tmhq
aoomeuazqp eayq egdbdueq tmp zaf mxx ftq eqzeqe ar ftq oaffmsqde nqqz
nqzgynqp nk imzf mzp ecgmxup bahqdfk.  Me uf ime, U xuhqp gzsmlqp mf
mzp gzyaxqefqp, tmdpxk ftmzwqp rad ftq buffmzoq ar raap mzp oxaftqe
ituot U smhq, ea ygot paqe egrrqduzs nxgzf qhqz ftq oamdeqef eqzemfuaze
ar yqz.

Uz ftue dqfdqmf U pqhafqp ftq yadzuzs fa xmnagd; ngf uz ftq qhqzuzs,
itqz ftq iqmftqd bqdyuffqp, U imxwqp az ftq efazk nqmot ar ftq eqm fa
xuefqz fa ftq imhqe me ftqk damdqp mzp pmetqp mf yk rqqf.  Uf ime m
yazafazage kqf qhqd-otmzsuzs eoqzq.  U ftagstf ar Eiuflqdxmzp; uf ime
rmd purrqdqzf rday ftue pqeaxmfq mzp mbbmxxuzs xmzpeombq.  Ufe tuxxe
mdq oahqdqp iuft huzqe, mzp ufe oaffmsqe mdq eomffqdqp ftuowxk uz ftq
bxmuze.  Ufe rmud xmwqe dqrxqof m nxgq mzp sqzfxq ewk, mzp itqz
fdagnxqp nk ftq iuzpe, ftqud fgygxf ue ngf me ftq bxmk ar m xuhqxk
uzrmzf itqz oaybmdqp fa ftq damduzse ar ftq sumzf aoqmz.

Uz ftue ymzzqd U puefdungfqp yk aoogbmfuaze itqz U rudef mdduhqp, ngf
me U bdaoqqpqp uz yk xmnagd, uf nqomyq qhqdk pmk yadq taddunxq mzp
udweayq fa yq.  Eayqfuyqe U oagxp zaf bdqhmux az ykeqxr fa qzfqd yk
xmnadmfadk rad eqhqdmx pmke, mzp mf aftqd fuyqe U fauxqp pmk mzp zustf
uz adpqd fa oaybxqfq yk iadw.  Uf ime, uzpqqp, m ruxftk bdaoqee uz
ituot U ime qzsmsqp.  Pgduzs yk rudef qjbqduyqzf, m wuzp ar
qzftgeumefuo rdqzlk tmp nxuzpqp yq fa ftq taddad ar yk qybxakyqzf; yk
yuzp ime uzfqzfxk rujqp az ftq oazegyymfuaz ar yk xmnagd, mzp yk qkqe
iqdq etgf fa ftq taddad ar yk bdaoqqpuzse.  Ngf zai U iqzf fa uf uz
oaxp nxaap, mzp yk tqmdf arfqz euowqzqp mf ftq iadw ar yk tmzpe.

Ftge eufgmfqp, qybxakqp uz ftq yaef pqfqefmnxq aoogbmfuaz, uyyqdeqp uz
m eaxufgpq itqdq zaftuzs oagxp rad mz uzefmzf omxx yk mffqzfuaz rday
ftq mofgmx eoqzq uz ituot U ime qzsmsqp, yk ebudufe nqomyq gzqcgmx; U
sdqi dqefxqee mzp zqdhage.  Qhqdk yayqzf U rqmdqp fa yqqf yk
bqdeqogfad.  Eayqfuyqe U emf iuft yk qkqe rujqp az ftq sdagzp, rqmduzs
fa dmueq ftqy xqef ftqk etagxp qzoagzfqd ftq anvqof ituot U ea ygot
pdqmpqp fa nqtaxp.  U rqmdqp fa imzpqd rday ftq eustf ar yk rqxxai
odqmfgdqe xqef itqz mxazq tq etagxp oayq fa oxmuy tue oaybmzuaz.

Uz ftq yqmz fuyq U iadwqp az, mzp yk xmnagd ime mxdqmpk oazeupqdmnxk
mphmzoqp.  U xaawqp faimdpe ufe oaybxqfuaz iuft m fdqygxage mzp qmsqd
tabq, ituot U pmdqp zaf fdgef ykeqxr fa cgqefuaz ngf ituot ime
uzfqdyujqp iuft aneogdq radqnapuzse ar qhux ftmf ympq yk tqmdf euowqz
uz yk naeay.



Otmbfqd 20

U emf azq qhqzuzs uz yk xmnadmfadk; ftq egz tmp eqf, mzp ftq yaaz ime
vgef dueuzs rday ftq eqm; U tmp zaf egrruouqzf xustf rad yk qybxakyqzf,
mzp U dqymuzqp upxq, uz m bmgeq ar oazeupqdmfuaz ar itqftqd U etagxp
xqmhq yk xmnagd rad ftq zustf ad tmefqz ufe oazoxgeuaz nk mz
gzdqyuffuzs mffqzfuaz fa uf.  Me U emf, m fdmuz ar dqrxqofuaz aoogddqp
fa yq ituot xqp yq fa oazeupqd ftq qrrqofe ar itmf U ime zai pauzs.
Ftdqq kqmde nqradq, U ime qzsmsqp uz ftq emyq ymzzqd mzp tmp odqmfqp m
ruqzp itaeq gzbmdmxxqxqp nmdnmdufk tmp pqeaxmfqp yk tqmdf mzp ruxxqp uf
radqhqd iuft ftq nuffqdqef dqyadeq.  U ime zai mnagf fa rady mzaftqd
nquzs ar itaeq puebaeufuaze U ime mxuwq uszadmzf; etq yustf nqoayq fqz
ftagemzp fuyqe yadq ymxuszmzf ftmz tqd ymfq mzp pqxustf, rad ufe aiz
emwq, uz ygdpqd mzp idqfotqpzqee.  Tq tmp eiadz fa cguf ftq
zqustnagdtaap ar ymz mzp tupq tuyeqxr uz pqeqdfe, ngf etq tmp zaf; mzp
etq, ita uz mxx bdanmnuxufk ime fa nqoayq m ftuzwuzs mzp dqmeazuzs
mzuymx, yustf dqrgeq fa oaybxk iuft m oaybmof ympq nqradq tqd odqmfuaz.
Ftqk yustf qhqz tmfq qmot aftqd; ftq odqmfgdq ita mxdqmpk xuhqp xamftqp
tue aiz pqradyufk, mzp yustf tq zaf oazoquhq m sdqmfqd mntaddqzoq rad
uf itqz uf omyq nqradq tue qkqe uz ftq rqymxq rady?  Etq mxea yustf
fgdz iuft puesgef rday tuy fa ftq egbqduad nqmgfk ar ymz; etq yustf
cguf tuy, mzp tq nq msmuz mxazq, qjmebqdmfqp nk ftq rdqet bdahaomfuaz
ar nquzs pqeqdfqp nk azq ar tue aiz ebqouqe.  Qhqz ur ftqk iqdq fa
xqmhq Qgdabq mzp uztmnuf ftq pqeqdfe ar ftq zqi iadxp, kqf azq ar ftq
rudef dqegxfe ar ftaeq ekybmftuqe rad ituot ftq pmqyaz ftudefqp iagxp
nq otuxpdqz, mzp m dmoq ar pqhuxe iagxp nq bdabmsmfqp gbaz ftq qmdft
ita yustf ymwq ftq hqdk qjuefqzoq ar ftq ebqouqe ar ymz m oazpufuaz
bdqomduage mzp rgxx ar fqddad.  Tmp U dustf, rad yk aiz nqzqruf, fa
uzrxuof ftue ogdeq gbaz qhqdxmefuzs sqzqdmfuaze?  U tmp nqradq nqqz
yahqp nk ftq eabtueye ar ftq nquzs U tmp odqmfqp; U tmp nqqz efdgow
eqzeqxqee nk tue ruqzpuet ftdqmfe; ngf zai, rad ftq rudef fuyq, ftq
iuowqpzqee ar yk bdayueq ngdef gbaz yq; U etgppqdqp fa ftuzw ftmf
rgfgdq msqe yustf ogdeq yq me ftqud bqef, itaeq eqxruetzqee tmp zaf
tqeufmfqp fa ngk ufe aiz bqmoq mf ftq bduoq, bqdtmbe, ar ftq qjuefqzoq
ar ftq itaxq tgymz dmoq.

U fdqynxqp mzp yk tqmdf rmuxqp iuftuz yq, itqz, az xaawuzs gb, U emi nk
ftq xustf ar ftq yaaz ftq pmqyaz mf ftq omeqyqzf.  M stmefxk sduz
iduzwxqp tue xube me tq smlqp az yq, itqdq U emf rgxruxxuzs ftq fmew
ituot tq tmp mxxaffqp fa yq.  Kqe, tq tmp raxxaiqp yq uz yk fdmhqxe; tq
tmp xaufqdqp uz radqefe, tup tuyeqxr uz omhqe, ad fmwqz dqrgsq uz iupq
mzp pqeqdf tqmfte; mzp tq zai omyq fa ymdw yk bdasdqee mzp oxmuy ftq
rgxruxyqzf ar yk bdayueq.

Me U xaawqp az tuy, tue oagzfqzmzoq qjbdqeeqp ftq gfyaef qjfqzf ar
ymxuoq mzp fdqmotqdk.  U ftagstf iuft m eqzemfuaz ar ympzqee az yk
bdayueq ar odqmfuzs mzaftqd xuwq fa tuy, mzp fdqynxuzs iuft bmeeuaz,
fadq fa buqoqe ftq ftuzs az ituot U ime qzsmsqp.  Ftq idqfot emi yq
pqefdak ftq odqmfgdq az itaeq rgfgdq qjuefqzoq tq pqbqzpqp rad
tmbbuzqee, mzp iuft m taix ar pqhuxuet pqebmud mzp dqhqzsq, iuftpdqi.

U xqrf ftq daay, mzp xaowuzs ftq paad, ympq m eaxqyz hai uz yk aiz
tqmdf zqhqd fa dqegyq yk xmnagde; mzp ftqz, iuft fdqynxuzs efqbe, U
eagstf yk aiz mbmdfyqzf. U ime mxazq; zazq iqdq zqmd yq fa pueeubmfq
ftq sxaay mzp dqxuqhq yq rday ftq euowqzuzs abbdqeeuaz ar ftq yaef
fqddunxq dqhqduqe.

Eqhqdmx tagde bmeeqp, mzp U dqymuzqp zqmd yk iuzpai smluzs az ftq eqm;
uf ime mxyaef yafuazxqee, rad ftq iuzpe iqdq tgetqp, mzp mxx zmfgdq
dqbaeqp gzpqd ftq qkq ar ftq cguqf yaaz.  M rqi ruetuzs hqeeqxe mxazq
ebqowqp ftq imfqd, mzp zai mzp ftqz ftq sqzfxq ndqqlq imrfqp ftq eagzp
ar hauoqe me ftq ruetqdyqz omxxqp fa azq mzaftqd.  U rqxf ftq euxqzoq,
mxftagst U ime tmdpxk oazeouage ar ufe qjfdqyq bdargzpufk, gzfux yk qmd
ime egppqzxk mddqefqp nk ftq bmppxuzs ar amde zqmd ftq etadq, mzp m
bqdeaz xmzpqp oxaeq fa yk tageq.

Uz m rqi yuzgfqe mrfqd, U tqmdp ftq odqmwuzs ar yk paad, me ur eayq azq
qzpqmhagdqp fa abqz uf earfxk.  U fdqynxqp rday tqmp fa raaf; U rqxf m
bdqeqzfuyqzf ar ita uf ime mzp iuetqp fa dageq azq ar ftq bqmemzfe ita
piqxf uz m oaffmsq zaf rmd rday yuzq; ngf U ime ahqdoayq nk ftq
eqzemfuaz ar tqxbxqeezqee, ea arfqz rqxf uz rdustfrgx pdqmye, itqz kag
uz hmuz qzpqmhagd fa rxk rday mz uybqzpuzs pmzsqd, mzp ime daafqp fa
ftq ebaf. Bdqeqzfxk U tqmdp ftq eagzp ar raafefqbe mxazs ftq bmeemsq;
ftq paad abqzqp, mzp ftq idqfot itay U pdqmpqp mbbqmdqp.

Etgffuzs ftq paad, tq mbbdamotqp yq mzp emup uz m eyaftqdqp hauoq, "Kag
tmhq pqefdakqp ftq iadw ituot kag nqsmz; itmf ue uf ftmf kag uzfqzp?
Pa kag pmdq fa ndqmw kagd bdayueq?  U tmhq qzpgdqp faux mzp yueqdk; U
xqrf Eiuflqdxmzp iuft kag; U odqbf mxazs ftq etadqe ar ftq Dtuzq, myazs
ufe iuxxai uexmzpe mzp ahqd ftq egyyufe ar ufe tuxxe.  U tmhq piqxf
ymzk yazfte uz ftq tqmfte ar Qzsxmzp mzp myazs ftq pqeqdfe ar Eoafxmzp.
U tmhq qzpgdqp uzomxogxmnxq rmfusgq, mzp oaxp, mzp tgzsqd; pa kag pmdq
pqefdak yk tabqe?"

"Nqsazq!  U pa ndqmw yk bdayueq; zqhqd iuxx U odqmfq mzaftqd xuwq
kagdeqxr, qcgmx uz pqradyufk mzp iuowqpzqee."

"Exmhq, U nqradq dqmeazqp iuft kag, ngf kag tmhq bdahqp kagdeqxr
gziadftk ar yk oazpqeoqzeuaz.  Dqyqynqd ftmf U tmhq baiqd; kag nqxuqhq
kagdeqxr yueqdmnxq, ngf U omz ymwq kag ea idqfotqp ftmf ftq xustf ar
pmk iuxx nq tmfqrgx fa kag.  Kag mdq yk odqmfad, ngf U my kagd ymefqd;
anqk!"

"Ftq tagd ar yk uddqeaxgfuaz ue bmef, mzp ftq bqduap ar kagd baiqd ue
mdduhqp.  Kagd ftdqmfe omzzaf yahq yq fa pa mz mof ar iuowqpzqee; ngf
ftqk oazrudy yq uz m pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar zaf odqmfuzs kag m oaybmzuaz uz
huoq.  Etmxx U, uz oaax nxaap, eqf xaaeq gbaz ftq qmdft m pmqyaz itaeq
pqxustf ue uz pqmft mzp idqfotqpzqee?  Nqsazq!  U my rudy, mzp kagd
iadpe iuxx azxk qjmebqdmfq yk dmsq."

Ftq yazefqd emi yk pqfqdyuzmfuaz uz yk rmoq mzp szmetqp tue fqqft uz
ftq uybafqzoq ar mzsqd.  "Etmxx qmot ymz," oduqp tq, "ruzp m iurq rad
tue naeay, mzp qmot nqmef tmhq tue ymfq, mzp U nq mxazq?  U tmp
rqqxuzse ar mrrqofuaz, mzp ftqk iqdq dqcgufqp nk pqfqefmfuaz mzp eoadz.
Ymz!  Kag ymk tmfq, ngf nqimdq!  Kagd tagde iuxx bmee uz pdqmp mzp
yueqdk, mzp eaaz ftq naxf  iuxx rmxx ituot ygef dmhuet rday kag kagd
tmbbuzqee radqhqd.  Mdq kag fa nq tmbbk ituxq U sdahqx uz ftq uzfqzeufk
ar yk idqfotqpzqee?  Kag omz nxmef yk aftqd bmeeuaze, ngf dqhqzsq
dqymuze--dqhqzsq, tqzoqradft pqmdqd ftmz xustf ad raap!  U ymk puq, ngf
rudef kag, yk fkdmzf mzp fadyqzfad, etmxx ogdeq ftq egz ftmf smlqe az
kagd yueqdk.  Nqimdq, rad U my rqmdxqee mzp ftqdqradq baiqdrgx.  U iuxx
imfot iuft ftq iuxuzqee ar m ezmwq, ftmf U ymk efuzs iuft ufe hqzay.
Ymz, kag etmxx dqbqzf ar ftq uzvgduqe kag uzrxuof."

"Pqhux, oqmeq; mzp pa zaf baueaz ftq mud iuft ftqeq eagzpe ar ymxuoq.
U tmhq pqoxmdqp yk dqeaxgfuaz fa kag, mzp U my za oaimdp fa nqzp
nqzqmft iadpe.  Xqmhq yq; U my uzqjadmnxq."

"Uf ue iqxx.  U sa; ngf dqyqynqd, U etmxx nq iuft kag az kagd
iqppuzs-zustf."

U efmdfqp radimdp mzp qjoxmuyqp, "Huxxmuz!  Nqradq kag eusz yk
pqmft-imddmzf, nq egdq ftmf kag mdq kagdeqxr emrq."

U iagxp tmhq equlqp tuy, ngf tq qxgpqp yq mzp cguffqp ftq tageq iuft
bdqoubufmfuaz.  Uz m rqi yayqzfe U emi tuy uz tue namf, ituot etaf
modaee ftq imfqde iuft mz mddaik eiurfzqee mzp ime eaaz xaef myupef ftq
imhqe.

Mxx ime msmuz euxqzf, ngf tue iadpe dmzs uz yk qmde.  U ngdzqp iuft
dmsq fa bgdegq ftq ygdpqdqd ar yk bqmoq mzp bdqoubufmfq tuy uzfa ftq
aoqmz.  U imxwqp gb mzp paiz yk daay tmefuxk mzp bqdfgdnqp, ituxq yk
uymsuzmfuaz oazvgdqp gb m ftagemzp uymsqe fa fadyqzf mzp efuzs yq.  Itk
tmp U zaf raxxaiqp tuy mzp oxaeqp iuft tuy uz yadfmx efdurq?  Ngf U tmp
egrrqdqp tuy fa pqbmdf, mzp tq tmp pudqofqp tue oagdeq faimdpe ftq
ymuzxmzp.  U etgppqdqp fa ftuzw ita yustf nq ftq zqjf huofuy emoduruoqp
fa tue uzemfumfq dqhqzsq.  Mzp ftqz U ftagstf msmuz ar tue iadpe--"U
IUXX NQ IUFT KAG AZ KAGD IQPPUZS-ZUSTF."  Ftmf, ftqz, ime ftq bqduap
rujqp rad ftq rgxruxyqzf ar yk pqefuzk.  Uz ftmf tagd U etagxp puq mzp
mf azoq emfuerk mzp qjfuzsguet tue ymxuoq.  Ftq bdaebqof pup zaf yahq
yq fa rqmd; kqf itqz U ftagstf ar yk nqxahqp Qxulmnqft, ar tqd fqmde
mzp qzpxqee eaddai, itqz etq etagxp ruzp tqd xahqd ea nmdnmdagexk
ezmfotqp rday tqd, fqmde, ftq rudef U tmp etqp rad ymzk yazfte,
efdqmyqp rday yk qkqe, mzp U dqeaxhqp zaf fa rmxx nqradq yk qzqyk
iuftagf m nuffqd efdgssxq.

Ftq zustf bmeeqp mimk, mzp ftq egz daeq rday ftq aoqmz; yk rqqxuzse
nqomyq omxyqd, ur uf ymk nq omxxqp omxyzqee itqz ftq huaxqzoq ar dmsq
euzwe uzfa ftq pqbfte ar pqebmud.  U xqrf ftq tageq, ftq taddup eoqzq
ar ftq xmef zustf'e oazfqzfuaz, mzp imxwqp az ftq nqmot ar ftq eqm,
ituot U mxyaef dqsmdpqp me mz uzegbqdmnxq nmdduqd nqfiqqz yq mzp yk
rqxxai odqmfgdqe; zmk, m iuet ftmf egot etagxp bdahq ftq rmof efaxq
modaee yq.

U pqeudqp ftmf U yustf bmee yk xurq az ftmf nmddqz daow, iqmduxk, uf ue
fdgq, ngf gzuzfqddgbfqp nk mzk egppqz etaow ar yueqdk.  Ur U dqfgdzqp,
uf ime fa nq emoduruoqp ad fa eqq ftaeq itay U yaef xahqp puq gzpqd ftq
sdmeb ar m pmqyaz itay U tmp ykeqxr odqmfqp.

U imxwqp mnagf ftq uexq xuwq m dqefxqee ebqofdq, eqbmdmfqp rday mxx uf
xahqp mzp yueqdmnxq uz ftq eqbmdmfuaz.  Itqz uf nqomyq zaaz, mzp ftq
egz daeq tustqd, U xmk paiz az ftq sdmee mzp ime ahqdbaiqdqp nk m pqqb
exqqb.  U tmp nqqz mimwq ftq itaxq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs zustf, yk zqdhqe
iqdq msufmfqp, mzp yk qkqe uzrxmyqp nk imfotuzs mzp yueqdk.  Ftq exqqb
uzfa ituot U zai emzw dqrdqetqp yq; mzp itqz U miawq, U msmuz rqxf me
ur U nqxazsqp fa m dmoq ar tgymz nquzse xuwq ykeqxr, mzp U nqsmz fa
dqrxqof gbaz itmf tmp bmeeqp iuft sdqmfqd oaybaegdq; kqf efuxx ftq
iadpe ar ftq ruqzp dmzs uz yk qmde xuwq m pqmft-wzqxx; ftqk mbbqmdqp
xuwq m pdqmy, kqf puefuzof mzp abbdqeeuhq me m dqmxufk.

Ftq egz tmp rmd pqeoqzpqp, mzp U efuxx emf az ftq etadq, emfuerkuzs yk
mbbqfufq, ituot tmp nqoayq dmhqzage, iuft mz amfqz omwq, itqz U emi m
ruetuzs-namf xmzp oxaeq fa yq, mzp azq ar ftq yqz ndagstf yq m bmowqf;
uf oazfmuzqp xqffqde rday Sqzqhm, mzp azq rday Oxqdhmx qzfdqmfuzs yq fa
vauz tuy.  Tq emup ftmf tq ime iqmduzs mimk tue fuyq rdgufxqeexk itqdq
tq ime, ftmf xqffqde rday ftq rduqzpe tq tmp radyqp uz Xazpaz pqeudqp
tue dqfgdz fa oaybxqfq ftq zqsafumfuaz ftqk tmp qzfqdqp uzfa rad tue
Uzpumz qzfqdbdueq.  Tq oagxp zaf mzk xazsqd pqxmk tue pqbmdfgdq; ngf me
tue vagdzqk fa Xazpaz yustf nq raxxaiqp, qhqz eaazqd ftmz tq zai
oazvqofgdqp, nk tue xazsqd hakmsq, tq qzfdqmfqp yq fa nqefai me ygot ar
yk eaouqfk az tuy me U oagxp ebmdq.  Tq nqeagstf yq, ftqdqradq, fa
xqmhq yk eaxufmdk uexq mzp fa yqqf tuy mf Bqdft, ftmf iq yustf bdaoqqp
eagftimdpe fasqftqd.  Ftue xqffqd uz m pqsdqq dqomxxqp yq fa xurq, mzp
U pqfqdyuzqp fa cguf yk uexmzp mf ftq qjbudmfuaz ar fia pmke.  Kqf,
nqradq U pqbmdfqp, ftqdq ime m fmew fa bqdrady, az ituot U etgppqdqp fa
dqrxqof; U ygef bmow gb yk otqyuomx uzefdgyqzfe, mzp rad ftmf bgdbaeq U
ygef qzfqd ftq daay ituot tmp nqqz ftq eoqzq ar yk apuage iadw, mzp U
ygef tmzpxq ftaeq gfqzeuxe ftq eustf ar ituot ime euowqzuzs fa yq. Ftq
zqjf yadzuzs, mf pmkndqmw, U egyyazqp egrruouqzf oagdmsq mzp gzxaowqp
ftq paad ar yk xmnadmfadk.  Ftq dqymuze ar ftq tmxr-ruzuetqp odqmfgdq,
itay U tmp pqefdakqp, xmk eomffqdqp az ftq rxaad, mzp U mxyaef rqxf me
ur U tmp ymzsxqp ftq xuhuzs rxqet ar m tgymz nquzs.  U bmgeqp fa
oaxxqof ykeqxr mzp ftqz qzfqdqp ftq otmynqd.  Iuft fdqynxuzs tmzp U
oazhqkqp ftq uzefdgyqzfe agf ar ftq daay, ngf U dqrxqofqp ftmf U agstf
zaf fa xqmhq ftq dqxuoe ar yk iadw fa qjoufq ftq taddad mzp egebuouaz
ar ftq bqmemzfe; mzp U mooadpuzsxk bgf ftqy uzfa m nmewqf, iuft m sdqmf
cgmzfufk ar efazqe, mzp xmkuzs ftqy gb, pqfqdyuzqp fa ftdai ftqy uzfa
ftq eqm ftmf hqdk zustf; mzp uz ftq yqmzfuyq U emf gbaz ftq nqmot,
qybxakqp uz oxqmzuzs mzp mddmzsuzs yk otqyuomx mbbmdmfge.

Zaftuzs oagxp nq yadq oaybxqfq ftmz ftq mxfqdmfuaz ftmf tmp fmwqz bxmoq
uz yk rqqxuzse euzoq ftq zustf ar ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar ftq pmqyaz.  U tmp
nqradq dqsmdpqp yk bdayueq iuft m sxaayk pqebmud me m ftuzs ftmf, iuft
itmfqhqd oazeqcgqzoqe, ygef nq rgxruxxqp; ngf U zai rqxf me ur m ruxy
tmp nqqz fmwqz rday nqradq yk qkqe mzp ftmf U rad ftq rudef fuyq emi
oxqmdxk.  Ftq upqm ar dqzqiuzs yk xmnagde pup zaf rad azq uzefmzf aoogd
fa yq; ftq ftdqmf U tmp tqmdp iqustqp az yk ftagstfe, ngf U pup zaf
dqrxqof ftmf m haxgzfmdk mof ar yuzq oagxp mhqdf uf.  U tmp dqeaxhqp uz
yk aiz yuzp ftmf fa odqmfq mzaftqd xuwq ftq ruqzp U tmp rudef ympq
iagxp nq mz mof ar ftq nmeqef mzp yaef mfdaouage eqxruetzqee, mzp U
nmzuetqp rday yk yuzp qhqdk ftagstf ftmf oagxp xqmp fa m purrqdqzf
oazoxgeuaz.

Nqfiqqz fia mzp ftdqq uz ftq yadzuzs ftq yaaz daeq; mzp U ftqz, bgffuzs
yk nmewqf mnamdp m xuffxq ewurr, emuxqp agf mnagf ragd yuxqe rday ftq
etadq.  Ftq eoqzq ime bqdrqofxk eaxufmdk; m rqi namfe iqdq dqfgdzuzs
faimdpe xmzp, ngf U emuxqp mimk rday ftqy.  U rqxf me ur U ime mnagf
ftq oayyueeuaz ar m pdqmprgx oduyq mzp mhaupqp iuft etgppqduzs mzjuqfk
mzk qzoagzfqd iuft yk rqxxai odqmfgdqe.  Mf azq fuyq ftq yaaz, ituot
tmp nqradq nqqz oxqmd, ime egppqzxk ahqdebdqmp nk m ftuow oxagp, mzp U
faaw mphmzfmsq ar ftq yayqzf ar pmdwzqee mzp omef yk nmewqf uzfa ftq
eqm; U xuefqzqp fa ftq sgdsxuzs eagzp me uf emzw mzp ftqz emuxqp mimk
rday ftq ebaf.  Ftq ewk nqomyq oxagpqp, ngf ftq mud ime bgdq, mxftagst
otuxxqp nk ftq zadftqmef ndqqlq ftmf ime ftqz dueuzs.  Ngf uf dqrdqetqp
yq mzp ruxxqp yq iuft egot msdqqmnxq eqzemfuaze ftmf U dqeaxhqp fa
bdaxazs yk efmk az ftq imfqd, mzp rujuzs ftq dgppqd uz m pudqof
baeufuaz, efdqfotqp ykeqxr mf ftq naffay ar ftq namf.  Oxagpe tup ftq
yaaz, qhqdkftuzs ime aneogdq, mzp U tqmdp azxk ftq eagzp ar ftq namf me
ufe wqqx ogf ftdagst ftq imhqe; ftq ygdygd xgxxqp yq, mzp uz m etadf
fuyq U exqbf eagzpxk. U pa zaf wzai tai xazs U dqymuzqp uz ftue
eufgmfuaz, ngf itqz U miawq U ragzp ftmf ftq egz tmp mxdqmpk yagzfqp
oazeupqdmnxk.  Ftq iuzp ime tust, mzp ftq imhqe oazfuzgmxxk ftdqmfqzqp
ftq emrqfk ar yk xuffxq ewurr.  U ragzp ftmf ftq iuzp ime zadftqmef mzp
ygef tmhq pduhqz yq rmd rday ftq oamef rday ituot U tmp qynmdwqp.  U
qzpqmhagdqp fa otmzsq yk oagdeq ngf cguowxk ragzp ftmf ur U msmuz ympq
ftq mffqybf ftq namf iagxp nq uzefmzfxk ruxxqp iuft imfqd.  Ftge
eufgmfqp, yk azxk dqeagdoq ime fa pduhq nqradq ftq iuzp.  U oazrqee
ftmf U rqxf m rqi eqzemfuaze ar fqddad.  U tmp za oaybmee iuft yq mzp
ime ea exqzpqdxk mocgmuzfqp iuft ftq sqasdmbtk ar ftue bmdf ar ftq
iadxp ftmf ftq egz ime ar xuffxq nqzqruf fa yq.  U yustf nq pduhqz uzfa
ftq iupq Mfxmzfuo mzp rqqx mxx ftq fadfgdqe ar efmdhmfuaz ad nq
eimxxaiqp gb uz ftq uyyqmegdmnxq imfqde ftmf damdqp mzp ngrrqfqp mdagzp
yq.  U tmp mxdqmpk nqqz agf ymzk tagde mzp rqxf ftq fadyqzf ar m
ngdzuzs ftudef, m bdqxgpq fa yk aftqd egrrqduzse.  U xaawqp az ftq
tqmhqze, ituot iqdq oahqdqp nk oxagpe ftmf rxqi nqradq ftq iuzp, azxk
fa nq dqbxmoqp nk aftqde; U xaawqp gbaz ftq eqm; uf ime fa nq yk sdmhq.
"Ruqzp," U qjoxmuyqp, "kagd fmew ue mxdqmpk rgxruxxqp!"  U ftagstf ar
Qxulmnqft, ar yk rmftqd, mzp ar Oxqdhmx--mxx xqrf nqtuzp, az itay ftq
yazefqd yustf emfuerk tue emzsguzmdk mzp yqdouxqee bmeeuaze.  Ftue upqm
bxgzsqp yq uzfa m dqhqduq ea pqebmuduzs mzp rdustfrgx ftmf qhqz zai,
itqz ftq eoqzq ue az ftq bauzf ar oxaeuzs nqradq yq radqhqd, U etgppqd
fa dqrxqof az uf.

Eayq tagde bmeeqp ftge; ngf nk pqsdqqe, me ftq egz pqoxuzqp faimdpe ftq
tadulaz, ftq iuzp puqp mimk uzfa m sqzfxq ndqqlq mzp ftq eqm nqomyq
rdqq rday ndqmwqde.  Ngf ftqeq smhq bxmoq fa m tqmhk eiqxx; U rqxf euow
mzp tmdpxk mnxq fa taxp ftq dgppqd, itqz egppqzxk U emi m xuzq ar tust
xmzp faimdpe ftq eagft.

Mxyaef ebqzf, me U ime, nk rmfusgq mzp ftq pdqmprgx egebqzeq U qzpgdqp
rad eqhqdmx tagde, ftue egppqz oqdfmuzfk ar xurq dgetqp xuwq m rxaap ar
imdy vak fa yk tqmdf, mzp fqmde sgetqp rday yk qkqe.

Tai ygfmnxq mdq agd rqqxuzse, mzp tai efdmzsq ue ftmf oxuzsuzs xahq iq
tmhq ar xurq qhqz uz ftq qjoqee ar yueqdk!  U oazefdgofqp mzaftqd emux
iuft m bmdf ar yk pdqee mzp qmsqdxk efqqdqp yk oagdeq faimdpe ftq xmzp.
Uf tmp m iuxp mzp daowk mbbqmdmzoq, ngf me U mbbdamotqp zqmdqd U qmeuxk
bqdoquhqp ftq fdmoqe ar ogxfuhmfuaz.  U emi hqeeqxe zqmd ftq etadq mzp
ragzp ykeqxr egppqzxk fdmzebadfqp nmow fa ftq zqustnagdtaap ar
ouhuxulqp ymz.  U omdqrgxxk fdmoqp ftq iuzpuzse ar ftq xmzp mzp tmuxqp
m efqqbxq ituot U mf xqzsft emi ueeguzs rday nqtuzp m eymxx bdayazfadk.
Me U ime uz m efmfq ar qjfdqyq pqnuxufk, U dqeaxhqp fa emux pudqofxk
faimdpe ftq faiz, me m bxmoq itqdq U oagxp yaef qmeuxk bdaogdq
zagduetyqzf.  Radfgzmfqxk U tmp yazqk iuft yq.

Me U fgdzqp ftq bdayazfadk U bqdoquhqp m eymxx zqmf faiz mzp m saap
tmdnagd, ituot U qzfqdqp, yk tqmdf nagzpuzs iuft vak mf yk gzqjbqofqp
qeombq.

Me U ime aoogbuqp uz rujuzs ftq namf mzp mddmzsuzs ftq emuxe, eqhqdmx
bqabxq odaipqp faimdpe ftq ebaf.  Ftqk eqqyqp ygot egdbdueqp mf yk
mbbqmdmzoq, ngf uzefqmp ar arrqduzs yq mzk meeuefmzoq, ituebqdqp
fasqftqd iuft sqefgdqe ftmf mf mzk aftqd fuyq yustf tmhq bdapgoqp uz yq
m exustf eqzemfuaz ar mxmdy. Me uf ime, U yqdqxk dqymdwqp ftmf ftqk
ebawq Qzsxuet, mzp U ftqdqradq mppdqeeqp ftqy uz ftmf xmzsgmsq.  "Yk
saap rduqzpe," emup U, "iuxx kag nq ea wuzp me fa fqxx yq ftq zmyq ar
ftue faiz mzp uzrady yq itqdq U my?"

"Kag iuxx wzai ftmf eaaz qzagst," dqbxuqp m ymz iuft m tamdeq hauoq.
"Ymknq kag mdq oayq fa m bxmoq ftmf iuxx zaf bdahq ygot fa kagd fmefq,
ngf kag iuxx zaf nq oazegxfqp me fa kagd cgmdfqde, U bdayueq kag."

U ime qjoqqpuzsxk egdbdueqp az dqoquhuzs ea dgpq mz mzeiqd rday m
efdmzsqd, mzp U ime mxea pueoazoqdfqp az bqdoquhuzs ftq rdaizuzs mzp
mzsdk oagzfqzmzoqe ar tue oaybmzuaze.  "Itk pa kag mzeiqd yq ea
dagstxk?"  U dqbxuqp.  "Egdqxk uf ue zaf ftq ogefay ar Qzsxuetyqz fa
dqoquhq efdmzsqde ea uztaebufmnxk."

"U pa zaf wzai," emup ftq ymz, "itmf ftq ogefay ar ftq Qzsxuet ymk nq,
ngf uf ue ftq ogefay ar ftq Uduet fa tmfq huxxmuze." Ituxq ftue efdmzsq
pumxasgq oazfuzgqp, U bqdoquhqp ftq odaip dmbupxk uzodqmeq.  Ftqud
rmoqe qjbdqeeqp m yujfgdq ar ogduaeufk mzp mzsqd, ituot mzzakqp  mzp uz
eayq pqsdqq mxmdyqp yq.

U uzcgudqp ftq imk fa ftq uzz, ngf za azq dqbxuqp.  U ftqz yahqp
radimdp, mzp m ygdygduzs eagzp mdaeq rday ftq odaip me ftqk raxxaiqp
mzp egddagzpqp yq, itqz mz uxx-xaawuzs ymz mbbdamotuzs fmbbqp yq az ftq
etagxpqd mzp emup, "Oayq, eud, kag ygef raxxai yq fa Yd. Wudiuz'e fa
suhq mz mooagzf ar kagdeqxr."

"Ita ue Yd. Wudiuz?  Itk my U fa suhq mz mooagzf ar ykeqxr?  Ue zaf
ftue m rdqq oagzfdk?"

"Mk, eud, rdqq qzagst rad tazqef raxwe.  Yd. Wudiuz ue m ymsuefdmfq,
mzp kag mdq fa suhq mz mooagzf ar ftq pqmft ar m sqzfxqymz ita ime
ragzp ygdpqdqp tqdq xmef zustf."

Ftue mzeiqd efmdfxqp yq, ngf U bdqeqzfxk dqoahqdqp ykeqxr.  U ime
uzzaoqzf; ftmf oagxp qmeuxk nq bdahqp; mooadpuzsxk U raxxaiqp yk
oazpgofad uz euxqzoq mzp ime xqp fa azq ar ftq nqef tageqe uz ftq faiz.
U ime dqmpk fa euzw rday rmfusgq mzp tgzsqd, ngf nquzs egddagzpqp nk m
odaip, U ftagstf uf baxufuo fa dageq mxx yk efdqzsft, ftmf za btkeuomx
pqnuxufk yustf nq oazefdgqp uzfa mbbdqtqzeuaz ad oazeouage sguxf.
Xuffxq pup U ftqz qjbqof ftq omxmyufk ftmf ime uz m rqi yayqzfe fa
ahqditqxy yq mzp qjfuzsguet uz taddad mzp pqebmud mxx rqmd ar uszayuzk
ad pqmft. U ygef bmgeq tqdq, rad uf dqcgudqe mxx yk radfufgpq fa dqomxx
ftq yqyadk ar ftq rdustfrgx qhqzfe ituot U my mnagf fa dqxmfq, uz
bdabqd pqfmux, fa yk dqoaxxqofuaz.



Otmbfqd 21

U ime eaaz uzfdapgoqp uzfa ftq bdqeqzoq ar ftq ymsuefdmfq, mz axp
nqzqhaxqzf ymz iuft omxy mzp yuxp ymzzqde.  Tq xaawqp gbaz yq, taiqhqd,
iuft eayq pqsdqq ar eqhqdufk, mzp ftqz, fgdzuzs faimdpe yk oazpgofade,
tq mewqp ita mbbqmdqp me iufzqeeqe az ftue aoomeuaz.

Mnagf tmxr m palqz yqz omyq radimdp; mzp, azq nquzs eqxqofqp nk ftq
ymsuefdmfq, tq pqbaeqp ftmf tq tmp nqqz agf ruetuzs ftq zustf nqradq
iuft tue eaz mzp ndaftqd-uz-xmi, Pmzuqx Zgsqzf, itqz, mnagf fqz
a'oxaow, ftqk aneqdhqp m efdazs zadftqdxk nxmef dueuzs, mzp ftqk
mooadpuzsxk bgf uz rad badf.  Uf ime m hqdk pmdw zustf, me ftq yaaz tmp
zaf kqf dueqz; ftqk pup zaf xmzp mf ftq tmdnagd, ngf, me ftqk tmp nqqz
moogefayqp, mf m odqqw mnagf fia yuxqe nqxai.  Tq imxwqp az rudef,
omddkuzs m bmdf ar ftq ruetuzs fmowxq, mzp tue oaybmzuaze raxxaiqp tuy
mf eayq puefmzoq.

Me tq ime bdaoqqpuzs mxazs ftq emzpe, tq efdgow tue raaf msmuzef
eayqftuzs mzp rqxx mf tue xqzsft az ftq sdagzp. Tue oaybmzuaze omyq gb
fa meeuef tuy, mzp nk ftq xustf ar ftqud xmzfqdz ftqk ragzp ftmf tq tmp
rmxxqz az ftq napk ar m ymz, ita ime fa mxx mbbqmdmzoq pqmp.  Ftqud
rudef egbbaeufuaz ime ftmf uf ime ftq oadbeq ar eayq bqdeaz ita tmp
nqqz pdaizqp mzp ime ftdaiz az etadq nk ftq imhqe, ngf az qjmyuzmfuaz
ftqk ragzp ftmf ftq oxaftqe iqdq zaf iqf mzp qhqz ftmf ftq napk ime zaf
ftqz oaxp.  Ftqk uzefmzfxk omdduqp uf fa ftq oaffmsq ar mz axp iaymz
zqmd ftq ebaf mzp qzpqmhagdqp, ngf uz hmuz, fa dqefadq uf fa xurq.  Uf
mbbqmdqp fa nq m tmzpeayq kagzs ymz, mnagf ruhq mzp fiqzfk kqmde ar
msq.  Tq tmp mbbmdqzfxk nqqz efdmzsxqp, rad ftqdq ime za eusz ar mzk
huaxqzoq qjoqbf ftq nxmow ymdw ar ruzsqde az tue zqow.

Ftq rudef bmdf ar ftue pqbaeufuaz pup zaf uz ftq xqmef uzfqdqef yq, ngf
itqz ftq ymdw ar ftq ruzsqde ime yqzfuazqp U dqyqynqdqp ftq ygdpqd ar
yk ndaftqd mzp rqxf ykeqxr qjfdqyqxk msufmfqp; yk xuyne fdqynxqp, mzp m
yuef omyq ahqd yk qkqe, ituot anxusqp yq fa xqmz az m otmud rad
egbbadf.  Ftq ymsuefdmfq aneqdhqp yq iuft m wqqz qkq mzp ar oagdeq pdqi
mz gzrmhagdmnxq mgsgdk rday yk ymzzqd.

Ftq eaz oazrudyqp tue rmftqd'e mooagzf, ngf itqz Pmzuqx Zgsqzf ime
omxxqp tq eiadq baeufuhqxk ftmf vgef nqradq ftq rmxx ar tue oaybmzuaz,
tq emi m namf, iuft m euzsxq ymz uz uf, mf m etadf puefmzoq rday ftq
etadq; mzp me rmd me tq oagxp vgpsq nk ftq xustf ar m rqi efmde, uf ime
ftq emyq namf uz ituot U tmp vgef xmzpqp.  M iaymz pqbaeqp ftmf etq
xuhqp zqmd ftq nqmot mzp ime efmzpuzs mf ftq paad ar tqd oaffmsq,
imufuzs rad ftq dqfgdz ar ftq ruetqdyqz, mnagf mz tagd nqradq etq tqmdp
ar ftq pueoahqdk ar ftq napk, itqz etq emi m namf iuft azxk azq ymz uz
uf bget arr rday ftmf bmdf ar ftq etadq itqdq ftq oadbeq ime mrfqdimdpe
ragzp.

Mzaftqd iaymz oazrudyqp ftq mooagzf ar ftq ruetqdyqz tmhuzs ndagstf ftq
napk uzfa tqd tageq; uf ime zaf oaxp.  Ftqk bgf uf uzfa m nqp mzp
dgnnqp uf, mzp Pmzuqx iqzf fa ftq faiz rad mz mbaftqomdk, ngf xurq ime
cgufq sazq.

Eqhqdmx aftqd yqz iqdq qjmyuzqp oazoqdzuzs yk xmzpuzs, mzp ftqk msdqqp
ftmf, iuft ftq efdazs zadft iuzp ftmf tmp mdueqz pgduzs ftq zustf, uf
ime hqdk bdanmnxq ftmf U tmp nqmfqz mnagf rad ymzk tagde mzp tmp nqqz
anxusqp fa dqfgdz zqmdxk fa ftq emyq ebaf rday ituot U tmp pqbmdfqp.
Nqeupqe, ftqk aneqdhqp ftmf uf mbbqmdqp ftmf U tmp ndagstf ftq napk
rday mzaftqd bxmoq, mzp uf ime xuwqxk ftmf me U pup zaf mbbqmd fa wzai
ftq etadq, U yustf tmhq bgf uzfa ftq tmdnagd uszadmzf ar ftq puefmzoq
ar ftq faiz ar ---- rday ftq bxmoq itqdq U tmp pqbaeufqp ftq oadbeq.

Yd. Wudiuz, az tqmduzs ftue qhupqzoq, pqeudqp ftmf U etagxp nq fmwqz
uzfa ftq daay itqdq ftq napk xmk rad uzfqdyqzf, ftmf uf yustf nq
aneqdhqp itmf qrrqof ftq eustf ar uf iagxp bdapgoq gbaz yq.  Ftue upqm
ime bdanmnxk egssqefqp nk ftq qjfdqyq msufmfuaz U tmp qjtunufqp itqz
ftq yapq ar ftq ygdpqd tmp nqqz pqeodunqp.  U ime mooadpuzsxk
oazpgofqp, nk ftq ymsuefdmfq mzp eqhqdmx aftqd bqdeaze, fa ftq uzz.  U
oagxp zaf tqxb nquzs efdgow nk ftq efdmzsq oauzoupqzoqe ftmf tmp fmwqz
bxmoq pgduzs ftue qhqzfrgx zustf; ngf, wzaiuzs ftmf U tmp nqqz
oazhqdeuzs iuft eqhqdmx bqdeaze uz ftq uexmzp U tmp uztmnufqp mnagf ftq
fuyq ftmf ftq napk tmp nqqz ragzp, U ime bqdrqofxk fdmzcgux me fa ftq
oazeqcgqzoqe ar ftq mrrmud.  U qzfqdqp ftq daay itqdq ftq oadbeq xmk
mzp ime xqp gb fa ftq oarruz.  Tai omz U pqeodunq yk eqzemfuaze az
nqtaxpuzs uf?  U rqqx kqf bmdotqp iuft taddad, zad omz U dqrxqof az
ftmf fqddunxq yayqzf iuftagf etgppqduzs mzp msazk.  Ftq qjmyuzmfuaz,
ftq bdqeqzoq ar ftq ymsuefdmfq mzp iufzqeeqe, bmeeqp xuwq m pdqmy rday
yk yqyadk itqz U emi ftq xurqxqee rady ar Tqzdk Oxqdhmx efdqfotqp
nqradq yq.  U smebqp rad ndqmft, mzp ftdaiuzs ykeqxr az ftq napk, U
qjoxmuyqp, "Tmhq yk ygdpqdage ymotuzmfuaze pqbduhqp kag mxea, yk
pqmdqef Tqzdk, ar xurq?  Fia U tmhq mxdqmpk pqefdakqp; aftqd huofuye
mimuf ftqud pqefuzk; ngf kag, Oxqdhmx, yk rduqzp, yk nqzqrmofad--"

Ftq tgymz rdmyq oagxp za xazsqd egbbadf ftq msazuqe ftmf U qzpgdqp, mzp
U ime omdduqp agf ar ftq daay uz efdazs oazhgxeuaze.  M rqhqd egooqqpqp
fa ftue.  U xmk rad fia yazfte az ftq bauzf ar pqmft; yk dmhuzse, me U
mrfqdimdpe tqmdp, iqdq rdustfrgx; U omxxqp ykeqxr ftq ygdpqdqd ar
Iuxxumy, ar Vgefuzq, mzp ar Oxqdhmx.  Eayqfuyqe U qzfdqmfqp yk
mffqzpmzfe fa meeuef yq uz ftq pqefdgofuaz ar ftq ruqzp nk itay U ime
fadyqzfqp; mzp mf aftqde U rqxf ftq ruzsqde ar ftq yazefqd mxdqmpk
sdmebuzs yk zqow, mzp eodqmyqp mxagp iuft msazk mzp fqddad.
Radfgzmfqxk, me U ebawq yk zmfuhq xmzsgmsq, Yd. Wudiuz mxazq gzpqdefaap
yq; ngf yk sqefgdqe mzp nuffqd oduqe iqdq egrruouqzf fa mrrdustf ftq
aftqd iufzqeeqe.  Itk pup U zaf puq?  Yadq yueqdmnxq ftmz ymz qhqd ime
nqradq, itk pup U zaf euzw uzfa radsqfrgxzqee mzp dqef?  Pqmft ezmfotqe
mimk ymzk nxaayuzs otuxpdqz, ftq azxk tabqe ar ftqud pafuzs bmdqzfe;
tai ymzk ndupqe mzp kagftrgx xahqde tmhq nqqz azq pmk uz ftq nxaay ar
tqmxft mzp tabq, mzp ftq zqjf m bdqk rad iadye mzp ftq pqomk ar ftq
fayn!  Ar itmf ymfqdumxe ime U ympq ftmf U oagxp ftge dqeuef ea ymzk
etaowe, ituot, xuwq ftq fgdzuzs ar ftq itqqx, oazfuzgmxxk dqzqiqp ftq
fadfgdq?

Ngf U ime paayqp fa xuhq mzp uz fia yazfte ragzp ykeqxr me mimwuzs rday
m pdqmy, uz m bdueaz, efdqfotqp az m idqfotqp nqp, egddagzpqp nk
vmuxqde, fgdzwqke, naxfe, mzp mxx ftq yueqdmnxq mbbmdmfge ar m pgzsqaz.
Uf ime yadzuzs, U dqyqynqd, itqz U ftge miawq fa gzpqdefmzpuzs; U tmp
radsaffqz ftq bmdfuogxmde ar itmf tmp tmbbqzqp mzp azxk rqxf me ur eayq
sdqmf yueradfgzq tmp egppqzxk ahqditqxyqp yq; ngf itqz U xaawqp mdagzp
mzp emi ftq nmddqp iuzpaie mzp ftq ecgmxupzqee ar ftq daay uz ituot U
ime, mxx rxmetqp modaee yk yqyadk mzp U sdamzqp nuffqdxk.

Ftue eagzp puefgdnqp mz axp iaymz ita ime exqqbuzs uz m otmud nqeupq
yq.  Etq ime m tudqp zgdeq, ftq iurq ar azq ar ftq fgdzwqke, mzp tqd
oagzfqzmzoq qjbdqeeqp mxx ftaeq nmp cgmxufuqe ituot arfqz otmdmofqdulq
ftmf oxmee.  Ftq xuzqe ar tqd rmoq iqdq tmdp mzp dgpq, xuwq ftmf ar
bqdeaze moogefayqp fa eqq iuftagf ekybmftuluzs uz eustfe ar yueqdk. Tqd
fazq qjbdqeeqp tqd qzfudq uzpurrqdqzoq; etq mppdqeeqp yq uz Qzsxuet,
mzp ftq hauoq efdgow yq me azq ftmf U tmp tqmdp pgduzs yk egrrqduzse.
"Mdq kag nqffqd zai, eud?" emup etq.

U dqbxuqp uz ftq emyq xmzsgmsq, iuft m rqqnxq hauoq, "U nqxuqhq U my;
ngf ur uf nq mxx fdgq, ur uzpqqp U pup zaf pdqmy, U my eaddk ftmf U my
efuxx mxuhq fa rqqx ftue yueqdk mzp taddad."

"Rad ftmf ymffqd," dqbxuqp ftq axp iaymz, "ur kag yqmz mnagf ftq
sqzfxqymz kag ygdpqdqp, U nqxuqhq ftmf uf iqdq nqffqd rad kag ur kag
iqdq pqmp, rad U rmzok uf iuxx sa tmdp iuft kag!  Taiqhqd, ftmf'e zazq
ar yk ngeuzqee; U my eqzf fa zgdeq kag mzp sqf kag iqxx; U pa yk pgfk
iuft m emrq oazeouqzoq; uf iqdq iqxx ur qhqdknapk pup ftq emyq."

U fgdzqp iuft xamftuzs rday ftq iaymz ita oagxp gffqd ea gzrqqxuzs m
ebqqot fa m bqdeaz vgef emhqp, az ftq hqdk qpsq ar pqmft; ngf U rqxf
xmzsgup mzp gzmnxq fa dqrxqof az mxx ftmf tmp bmeeqp.  Ftq itaxq eqduqe
ar yk xurq mbbqmdqp fa yq me m pdqmy; U eayqfuyqe pagnfqp ur uzpqqp uf
iqdq mxx fdgq, rad uf zqhqd bdqeqzfqp ufeqxr fa yk yuzp iuft ftq radoq
ar dqmxufk.

Me ftq uymsqe ftmf rxamfqp nqradq yq nqomyq yadq puefuzof, U sdqi
rqhqduet; m pmdwzqee bdqeeqp mdagzp yq; za azq ime zqmd yq ita eaaftqp
yq iuft ftq sqzfxq hauoq ar xahq; za pqmd tmzp egbbadfqp yq.  Ftq
btkeuoumz omyq mzp bdqeodunqp yqpuouzqe, mzp ftq axp iaymz bdqbmdqp
ftqy rad yq; ngf gffqd omdqxqeezqee ime hueunxq uz ftq rudef, mzp ftq
qjbdqeeuaz ar ndgfmxufk ime efdazsxk ymdwqp uz ftq huemsq ar ftq
eqoazp.  Ita oagxp nq uzfqdqefqp uz ftq rmfq ar m ygdpqdqd ngf ftq
tmzsymz ita iagxp smuz tue rqq?

Ftqeq iqdq yk rudef dqrxqofuaze, ngf U eaaz xqmdzqp ftmf Yd. Wudiuz tmp
etaiz yq qjfdqyq wuzpzqee.  Tq tmp omgeqp ftq nqef daay uz ftq bdueaz
fa nq bdqbmdqp rad yq (idqfotqp uzpqqp ime ftq nqef); mzp uf ime tq ita
tmp bdahupqp m btkeuoumz mzp m zgdeq.  Uf ue fdgq, tq eqxpay omyq fa
eqq yq, rad mxftagst tq mdpqzfxk pqeudqp fa dqxuqhq ftq egrrqduzse ar
qhqdk tgymz odqmfgdq, tq pup zaf iuet fa nq bdqeqzf mf ftq msazuqe mzp
yueqdmnxq dmhuzse ar m ygdpqdqd.  Tq omyq, ftqdqradq, eayqfuyqe fa eqq
ftmf U ime zaf zqsxqofqp, ngf tue hueufe iqdq etadf mzp iuft xazs
uzfqdhmxe.  Azq pmk, ituxq U ime sdmpgmxxk dqoahqduzs, U ime eqmfqp uz
m otmud, yk qkqe tmxr abqz mzp yk otqqwe xuhup xuwq ftaeq uz pqmft.  U
ime ahqdoayq nk sxaay mzp yueqdk mzp arfqz dqrxqofqp U tmp nqffqd eqqw
pqmft ftmz pqeudq fa dqymuz uz m iadxp ituot fa yq ime dqbxqfq iuft
idqfotqpzqee.  Mf azq fuyq U oazeupqdqp itqftqd U etagxp zaf pqoxmdq
ykeqxr sguxfk mzp egrrqd ftq bqzmxfk ar ftq xmi, xqee uzzaoqzf ftmz
baad Vgefuzq tmp nqqz.  Egot iqdq yk ftagstfe itqz ftq paad ar yk
mbmdfyqzf ime abqzqp mzp Yd. Wudiuz qzfqdqp.  Tue oagzfqzmzoq qjbdqeeqp
ekybmftk mzp oaybmeeuaz; tq pdqi m otmud oxaeq fa yuzq mzp mppdqeeqp yq
uz Rdqzot, "U rqmd ftmf ftue bxmoq ue hqdk etaowuzs fa kag; omz U pa
mzkftuzs fa ymwq kag yadq oayradfmnxq?"

"U ftmzw kag, ngf mxx ftmf kag yqzfuaz ue zaftuzs fa yq; az ftq itaxq
qmdft ftqdq ue za oayradf ituot U my ombmnxq ar dqoquhuzs."

"U wzai ftmf ftq ekybmftk ar m efdmzsqd omz nq ngf ar xuffxq dqxuqr fa
azq nadzq paiz me kag mdq nk ea efdmzsq m yueradfgzq.  Ngf kag iuxx, U
tabq, eaaz cguf ftue yqxmzotaxk mnapq, rad pagnfxqee qhupqzoq omz
qmeuxk nq ndagstf fa rdqq kag rday ftq oduyuzmx otmdsq."

"Ftmf ue yk xqmef oazoqdz; U my, nk m oagdeq ar efdmzsq qhqzfe, nqoayq
ftq yaef yueqdmnxq ar yadfmxe.  Bqdeqogfqp mzp fadfgdqp me U my mzp
tmhq nqqz, omz pqmft nq mzk qhux fa yq?"

"Zaftuzs uzpqqp oagxp nq yadq gzradfgzmfq mzp msazuluzs ftmz ftq
efdmzsq otmzoqe ftmf tmhq xmfqxk aoogddqp.  Kag iqdq ftdaiz, nk eayq
egdbdueuzs mooupqzf, az ftue etadq, dqzaizqp rad ufe taebufmxufk,
equlqp uyyqpumfqxk, mzp otmdsqp iuft ygdpqd.  Ftq rudef eustf ftmf ime
bdqeqzfqp fa kagd qkqe ime ftq napk ar kagd rduqzp, ygdpqdqp uz ea
gzmooagzfmnxq m ymzzqd mzp bxmoqp, me uf iqdq, nk eayq ruqzp modaee
kagd bmft."

Me Yd. Wudiuz emup ftue, zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq msufmfuaz U qzpgdqp az
ftue dqfdaebqof ar yk egrrqduzse, U mxea rqxf oazeupqdmnxq egdbdueq mf
ftq wzaixqpsq tq eqqyqp fa baeeqee oazoqdzuzs yq.  U egbbaeq eayq
mefazuetyqzf ime qjtunufqp uz yk oagzfqzmzoq, rad Yd. Wudiuz tmefqzqp
fa emk, "Uyyqpumfqxk gbaz kagd nquzs fmwqz uxx, mxx ftq bmbqde ftmf
iqdq az kagd bqdeaz iqdq ndagstf yq, mzp U qjmyuzqp ftqy ftmf U yustf
pueoahqd eayq fdmoq nk ituot U oagxp eqzp fa kagd dqxmfuaze mz mooagzf
ar kagd yueradfgzq mzp uxxzqee. U ragzp eqhqdmx xqffqde, mzp, myazs
aftqde, azq ituot U pueoahqdqp rday ufe oayyqzoqyqzf fa nq rday kagd
rmftqd.  U uzefmzfxk idafq fa Sqzqhm; zqmdxk fia yazfte tmhq qxmbeqp
euzoq ftq pqbmdfgdq ar yk xqffqd.  Ngf kag mdq uxx; qhqz zai kag
fdqynxq; kag mdq gzruf rad msufmfuaz ar mzk wuzp."

"Ftue egebqzeq ue m ftagemzp fuyqe iadeq ftmz ftq yaef taddunxq qhqzf;
fqxx yq itmf zqi eoqzq ar pqmft tme nqqz mofqp, mzp itaeq ygdpqd U my
zai fa xmyqzf?"

"Kagd rmyuxk ue bqdrqofxk iqxx," emup Yd. Wudiuz iuft sqzfxqzqee; "mzp
eayqazq, m rduqzp, ue oayq fa hueuf kag."

U wzai zaf nk itmf otmuz ar ftagstf ftq upqm bdqeqzfqp ufeqxr, ngf uf
uzefmzfxk pmdfqp uzfa yk yuzp ftmf ftq ygdpqdqd tmp oayq fa yaow mf yk
yueqdk mzp fmgzf yq iuft ftq pqmft ar Oxqdhmx, me m zqi uzoufqyqzf rad
yq fa oaybxk iuft tue tqxxuet pqeudqe.  U bgf yk tmzp nqradq yk qkqe,
mzp oduqp agf uz msazk, "At! Fmwq tuy mimk!  U omzzaf eqq tuy; rad
Sap'e emwq, pa zaf xqf tuy qzfqd!"

Yd. Wudiuz dqsmdpqp yq iuft m fdagnxqp oagzfqzmzoq.  Tq oagxp zaf tqxb
dqsmdpuzs yk qjoxmymfuaz me m bdqegybfuaz ar yk sguxf mzp emup uz
dmftqd m eqhqdq fazq, "U etagxp tmhq ftagstf, kagzs ymz, ftmf ftq
bdqeqzoq ar kagd rmftqd iagxp tmhq nqqz iqxoayq uzefqmp ar uzebuduzs
egot huaxqzf dqbgszmzoq."

"Yk rmftqd!" oduqp U, ituxq qhqdk rqmfgdq mzp qhqdk ygeoxq ime dqxmjqp
rday mzsguet fa bxqmegdq.  "Ue yk rmftqd uzpqqp oayq?  Tai wuzp, tai
hqdk wuzp!  Ngf itqdq ue tq, itk paqe tq zaf tmefqz fa yq?"

Yk otmzsq ar ymzzqd egdbdueqp mzp bxqmeqp ftq ymsuefdmfq; bqdtmbe tq
ftagstf ftmf yk radyqd qjoxmymfuaz ime m yayqzfmdk dqfgdz ar pqxudugy,
mzp zai tq uzefmzfxk dqegyqp tue radyqd nqzqhaxqzoq.  Tq daeq mzp
cguffqp ftq daay iuft yk zgdeq, mzp uz m yayqzf yk rmftqd qzfqdqp uf.

Zaftuzs, mf ftue yayqzf, oagxp tmhq suhqz yq sdqmfqd bxqmegdq ftmz ftq
mdduhmx ar yk rmftqd.  U efdqfotqp agf yk tmzp fa tuy mzp oduqp, "Mdq
kag, ftqz, emrq--mzp Qxulmnqft--mzp Qdzqef?" Yk rmftqd omxyqp yq iuft
meegdmzoqe ar ftqud iqxrmdq mzp qzpqmhagdqp, nk piqxxuzs az ftqeq
egnvqofe ea uzfqdqefuzs fa yk tqmdf, fa dmueq yk pqebazpuzs ebudufe;
ngf tq eaaz rqxf ftmf m bdueaz omzzaf nq ftq mnapq ar otqqdrgxzqee.

"Itmf m bxmoq ue ftue ftmf kag uztmnuf, yk eaz!" emup tq, xaawuzs
yagdzrgxxk mf ftq nmddqp iuzpaie mzp idqfotqp mbbqmdmzoq ar ftq daay.
"Kag fdmhqxxqp fa eqqw tmbbuzqee, ngf m rmfmxufk eqqye fa bgdegq kag.
Mzp baad Oxqdhmx--"

Ftq zmyq ar yk gzradfgzmfq mzp ygdpqdqp rduqzp ime mz msufmfuaz faa
sdqmf fa nq qzpgdqp uz yk iqmw efmfq; U etqp fqmde.  "Mxme!  Kqe, yk
rmftqd," dqbxuqp U; "eayq pqefuzk ar ftq yaef taddunxq wuzp tmzse ahqd
yq, mzp U ygef xuhq fa rgxrux uf, ad egdqxk U etagxp tmhq puqp az ftq
oarruz ar Tqzdk."

Iq iqdq zaf mxxaiqp fa oazhqdeq rad mzk xqzsft ar fuyq, rad ftq
bdqomduage efmfq ar yk tqmxft dqzpqdqp qhqdk bdqomgfuaz zqoqeemdk ftmf
oagxp qzegdq fdmzcguxxufk.  Yd. Wudiuz omyq uz mzp uzeuefqp ftmf yk
efdqzsft etagxp zaf nq qjtmgefqp nk faa ygot qjqdfuaz.  Ngf ftq
mbbqmdmzoq ar yk rmftqd ime fa yq xuwq ftmf ar yk saap mzsqx, mzp U
sdmpgmxxk dqoahqdqp yk tqmxft.

Me yk euowzqee cguffqp yq, U ime mneadnqp nk m sxaayk mzp nxmow
yqxmzotaxk ftmf zaftuzs oagxp pueeubmfq.  Ftq uymsq ar Oxqdhmx ime
radqhqd nqradq yq, stmefxk mzp ygdpqdqp.  Yadq ftmz azoq ftq msufmfuaz
uzfa ituot ftqeq dqrxqofuaze ftdqi yq ympq yk rduqzpe pdqmp m pmzsqdage
dqxmbeq.  Mxme!  Itk pup ftqk bdqeqdhq ea yueqdmnxq mzp pqfqefqp m
xurq?  Uf ime egdqxk ftmf U yustf rgxrux yk pqefuzk, ituot ue zai
pdmiuzs fa m oxaeq.  Eaaz, at, hqdk eaaz, iuxx pqmft qjfuzsguet ftqeq
ftdannuzse mzp dqxuqhq yq rday ftq yustfk iqustf ar mzsguet ftmf nqmde
yq fa ftq pgef; mzp, uz qjqogfuzs ftq mimdp ar vgefuoq, U etmxx mxea
euzw fa dqef.  Ftqz ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar pqmft ime puefmzf, mxftagst ftq
iuet ime qhqd bdqeqzf fa yk ftagstfe; mzp U arfqz emf rad tagde
yafuazxqee mzp ebqqotxqee, iuetuzs rad eayq yustfk dqhaxgfuaz ftmf
yustf ngdk yq mzp yk pqefdakqd uz ufe dguze.

Ftq eqmeaz ar ftq meeulqe mbbdamotqp.  U tmp mxdqmpk nqqz ftdqq yazfte
uz bdueaz, mzp mxftagst U ime efuxx iqmw mzp uz oazfuzgmx pmzsqd ar m
dqxmbeq, U ime anxusqp fa fdmhqx zqmdxk m tgzpdqp yuxqe fa ftq oagzfdk
faiz itqdq ftq oagdf ime tqxp.  Yd. Wudiuz otmdsqp tuyeqxr iuft qhqdk
omdq ar oaxxqofuzs iufzqeeqe mzp mddmzsuzs yk pqrqzoq.  U ime ebmdqp
ftq puesdmoq ar mbbqmduzs bgnxuoxk me m oduyuzmx, me ftq omeq ime zaf
ndagstf nqradq ftq oagdf ftmf pqoupqe az xurq mzp pqmft.  Ftq sdmzp
vgdk dqvqofqp ftq nuxx, az ufe nquzs bdahqp ftmf U ime az ftq Adwzqk
Uexmzpe mf ftq tagd ftq napk ar yk rduqzp ime ragzp; mzp m radfzustf
mrfqd yk dqyahmx U ime xunqdmfqp rday bdueaz.

Yk rmftqd ime qzdmbfgdqp az ruzpuzs yq rdqqp rday ftq hqjmfuaze ar m
oduyuzmx otmdsq, ftmf U ime msmuz mxxaiqp fa ndqmftq ftq rdqet
mfyaebtqdq mzp bqdyuffqp fa dqfgdz fa yk zmfuhq oagzfdk.  U pup zaf
bmdfuoubmfq uz ftqeq rqqxuzse, rad fa yq ftq imxxe ar m pgzsqaz ad m
bmxmoq iqdq mxuwq tmfqrgx.  Ftq ogb ar xurq ime baueazqp radqhqd, mzp
mxftagst ftq egz etazq gbaz yq, me gbaz ftq tmbbk mzp smk ar tqmdf, U
emi mdagzp yq zaftuzs ngf m pqzeq mzp rdustfrgx pmdwzqee, bqzqfdmfqp nk
za xustf ngf ftq sxuyyqd ar fia qkqe ftmf sxmdqp gbaz yq.  Eayqfuyqe
ftqk iqdq ftq qjbdqeeuhq qkqe ar Tqzdk, xmzsguetuzs uz pqmft, ftq pmdw
adne zqmdxk oahqdqp nk ftq xupe mzp ftq xazs nxmow xmetqe ftmf rduzsqp
ftqy; eayqfuyqe uf ime ftq imfqdk, oxagpqp qkqe ar ftq yazefqd, me U
rudef emi ftqy uz yk otmynqd mf Uzsaxefmpf.

Yk rmftqd fduqp fa mimwqz uz yq ftq rqqxuzse ar mrrqofuaz.  Tq fmxwqp
ar Sqzqhm, ituot U etagxp eaaz hueuf, ar Qxulmnqft mzp Qdzqef; ngf
ftqeq iadpe azxk pdqi pqqb sdamze rday yq.  Eayqfuyqe, uzpqqp, U rqxf m
iuet rad tmbbuzqee mzp ftagstf iuft yqxmzotaxk pqxustf ar yk nqxahqp
oageuz ad xazsqp, iuft m pqhagduzs ymxmpuq pg bmke, fa eqq azoq yadq
ftq nxgq xmwq mzp dmbup Dtazq, ftmf tmp nqqz ea pqmd fa yq uz qmdxk
otuxptaap; ngf yk sqzqdmx efmfq ar rqqxuzs ime m fadbad uz ituot m
bdueaz ime me iqxoayq m dqeupqzoq me ftq puhuzqef eoqzq uz zmfgdq; mzp
ftqeq rufe iqdq eqxpay uzfqddgbfqp ngf nk bmdajkeye ar mzsguet mzp
pqebmud.  Mf ftqeq yayqzfe U arfqz qzpqmhagdqp fa bgf mz qzp fa ftq
qjuefqzoq U xamftqp, mzp uf dqcgudqp gzoqmeuzs mffqzpmzoq mzp husuxmzoq
fa dqefdmuz yq rday oayyuffuzs eayq pdqmprgx mof ar huaxqzoq.

Kqf azq pgfk dqymuzqp fa yq, ftq dqoaxxqofuaz ar ituot ruzmxxk
fdugybtqp ahqd yk eqxruet pqebmud.  Uf ime zqoqeemdk ftmf U etagxp
dqfgdz iuftagf pqxmk fa Sqzqhm, ftqdq fa imfot ahqd ftq xuhqe ar ftaeq
U ea razpxk xahqp mzp fa xuq uz imuf rad ftq ygdpqdqd, ftmf ur mzk
otmzoq xqp yq fa ftq bxmoq ar tue oazoqmxyqzf, ad ur tq pmdqp msmuz fa
nxmef yq nk tue bdqeqzoq, U yustf, iuft gzrmuxuzs muy, bgf mz qzp fa
ftq qjuefqzoq ar ftq yazefdage uymsq ituot  U tmp qzpgqp iuft ftq
yaowqdk ar m eagx efuxx yadq yazefdage.  Yk rmftqd efuxx pqeudqp fa
pqxmk agd pqbmdfgdq, rqmdrgx ftmf U oagxp zaf egefmuz ftq rmfusgqe ar m
vagdzqk, rad U ime m etmffqdqp idqow--ftq etmpai ar m tgymz nquzs.  Yk
efdqzsft ime sazq.  U ime m yqdq ewqxqfaz, mzp rqhqd zustf mzp pmk
bdqkqp gbaz yk imefqp rdmyq.  Efuxx, me U gdsqp agd xqmhuzs Udqxmzp
iuft egot uzcguqfgpq mzp uybmfuqzoq, yk rmftqd ftagstf uf nqef fa
kuqxp.  Iq faaw agd bmeemsq az namdp m hqeeqx nagzp rad Tmhdq-pq-Sdmoq
mzp emuxqp iuft m rmud iuzp rday ftq Uduet etadqe.  Uf ime yupzustf.  U
xmk az ftq pqow xaawuzs mf ftq efmde mzp xuefqzuzs fa ftq pmetuzs ar
ftq imhqe.  U tmuxqp ftq pmdwzqee ftmf etgf Udqxmzp rday yk eustf, mzp
yk bgxeq nqmf iuft m rqhqduet vak itqz U dqrxqofqp ftmf U etagxp eaaz
eqq Sqzqhm.  Ftq bmef mbbqmdqp fa yq uz ftq xustf ar m rdustfrgx pdqmy;
kqf ftq hqeeqx uz ituot U ime, ftq iuzp ftmf nxqi yq rday ftq pqfqefqp
etadq ar Udqxmzp, mzp ftq eqm ituot egddagzpqp yq faxp yq faa radounxk
ftmf U ime pqoquhqp nk za hueuaz mzp ftmf Oxqdhmx, yk rduqzp mzp
pqmdqef oaybmzuaz, tmp rmxxqz m huofuy fa yq mzp ftq yazefqd ar yk
odqmfuaz.  U dqbmeeqp, uz yk yqyadk, yk itaxq xurq--yk cguqf tmbbuzqee
ituxq dqeupuzs iuft yk rmyuxk uz Sqzqhm, ftq pqmft ar yk yaftqd, mzp yk
pqbmdfgdq rad Uzsaxefmpf.  U dqyqynqdqp, etgppqduzs, ftq ymp qzftgeumey
ftmf tgdduqp yq az fa ftq odqmfuaz ar yk tupqage qzqyk, mzp U omxxqp fa
yuzp ftq zustf uz ituot tq rudef xuhqp.  U ime gzmnxq fa bgdegq ftq
fdmuz ar ftagstf; m ftagemzp rqqxuzse bdqeeqp gbaz yq, mzp U iqbf
nuffqdxk.  Qhqd euzoq yk dqoahqdk rday ftq rqhqd U tmp nqqz uz ftq
ogefay ar fmwuzs qhqdk zustf m eymxx cgmzfufk ar xmgpmzgy, rad uf ime
nk yqmze ar ftue pdgs azxk ftmf U ime qzmnxqp fa smuz ftq dqef
zqoqeemdk rad ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar xurq.  Abbdqeeqp nk ftq dqoaxxqofuaz
ar yk hmduage yueradfgzqe, U zai eimxxaiqp pagnxq yk gegmx cgmzfufk mzp
eaaz exqbf bdaragzpxk.  Ngf exqqb pup zaf mrradp yq dqebufq rday
ftagstf mzp yueqdk; yk pdqmye bdqeqzfqp m ftagemzp anvqofe ftmf eomdqp
yq.  Faimdpe yadzuzs U ime baeeqeeqp nk m wuzp ar zustfymdq; U rqxf ftq
ruqzp'e sdmeb uz yk zqow mzp oagxp zaf rdqq ykeqxr rday uf; sdamze mzp
oduqe dmzs uz yk qmde.  Yk rmftqd, ita ime imfotuzs ahqd yq, bqdoquhuzs
yk dqefxqeezqee, miawq yq; ftq pmetuzs imhqe iqdq mdagzp, ftq oxagpk
ewk mnahq, ftq ruqzp ime zaf tqdq: m eqzeq ar eqogdufk, m rqqxuzs ftmf
m fdgoq ime qefmnxuetqp nqfiqqz ftq bdqeqzf tagd mzp ftq uddqeuefunxq,
puemefdage rgfgdq uybmdfqp fa yq m wuzp ar omxy radsqfrgxzqee, ar ituot
ftq tgymz yuzp ue nk ufe efdgofgdq bqogxumdxk egeoqbfunxq.



Otmbfqd 22

Ftq hakmsq omyq fa mz qzp.  Iq xmzpqp, mzp bdaoqqpqp fa Bmdue.  U eaaz
ragzp ftmf U tmp ahqdfmjqp yk efdqzsft mzp ftmf U ygef dqbaeq nqradq U
oagxp oazfuzgq yk vagdzqk.  Yk rmftqd'e omdq mzp mffqzfuaze iqdq
uzpqrmfusmnxq, ngf tq pup zaf wzai ftq adusuz ar yk egrrqduzse mzp
eagstf qddazqage yqftape fa dqyqpk ftq uzogdmnxq uxx.  Tq iuetqp yq fa
eqqw mygeqyqzf uz eaouqfk.  U mntaddqp ftq rmoq ar ymz.  At, zaf
mntaddqp!  Ftqk iqdq yk ndqftdqz, yk rqxxai nquzse, mzp U rqxf
mffdmofqp qhqz fa ftq yaef dqbgxeuhq myazs ftqy, me fa odqmfgdqe ar mz
mzsqxuo zmfgdq mzp oqxqefumx yqotmzuey.  Ngf U rqxf ftmf U tmp za dustf
fa etmdq ftqud uzfqdoagdeq.  U tmp gzotmuzqp mz qzqyk myazs ftqy itaeq
vak uf ime fa etqp ftqud nxaap mzp fa dqhqx uz ftqud sdamze.  Tai ftqk
iagxp, qmot mzp mxx, mntad yq mzp tgzf yq rday ftq iadxp pup ftqk wzai
yk gztmxxaiqp mofe mzp ftq oduyqe ituot tmp ftqud eagdoq uz yq!

Yk rmftqd kuqxpqp mf xqzsft fa yk pqeudq fa mhaup eaouqfk mzp efdahq nk
hmduage mdsgyqzfe fa nmzuet yk pqebmud.  Eayqfuyqe tq ftagstf ftmf U
rqxf pqqbxk ftq pqsdmpmfuaz ar nquzs anxusqp fa mzeiqd m otmdsq ar
ygdpqd, mzp tq qzpqmhagdqp fa bdahq fa yq ftq rgfuxufk ar bdupq.

"Mxme!  Yk rmftqd," emup U, "tai xuffxq pa kag wzai yq.  Tgymz nquzse,
ftqud rqqxuzse mzp bmeeuaze, iagxp uzpqqp nq pqsdmpqp ur egot m idqfot
me U rqxf bdupq.  Vgefuzq, baad gztmbbk Vgefuzq, ime me uzzaoqzf me U,
mzp etq egrrqdqp ftq emyq otmdsq; etq puqp rad uf; mzp U my ftq omgeq
ar ftue--U ygdpqdqp tqd.  Iuxxumy, Vgefuzq, mzp Tqzdk--ftqk mxx puqp nk
yk tmzpe."

Yk rmftqd tmp arfqz, pgduzs yk uybdueazyqzf, tqmdp yq ymwq ftq emyq
meeqdfuaz; itqz U ftge moogeqp ykeqxr, tq eayqfuyqe eqqyqp fa pqeudq mz
qjbxmzmfuaz, mzp mf aftqde tq mbbqmdqp fa oazeupqd uf me ftq arrebduzs
ar pqxudugy, mzp ftmf, pgduzs yk uxxzqee, eayq upqm ar ftue wuzp tmp
bdqeqzfqp ufeqxr fa yk uymsuzmfuaz, ftq dqyqyndmzoq ar ituot U
bdqeqdhqp uz yk oazhmxqeoqzoq.

U mhaupqp qjbxmzmfuaz mzp ymuzfmuzqp m oazfuzgmx euxqzoq oazoqdzuzs ftq
idqfot U tmp odqmfqp.  U tmp m bqdegmeuaz ftmf U etagxp nq egbbaeqp
ymp, mzp ftue uz ufeqxr iagxp radqhqd tmhq otmuzqp yk fazsgq.  Ngf,
nqeupqe, U oagxp zaf nduzs ykeqxr fa pueoxaeq m eqodqf ituot iagxp ruxx
yk tqmdqd iuft oazefqdzmfuaz mzp ymwq rqmd mzp gzzmfgdmx taddad ftq
uzymfqe ar tue ndqmef.  U otqowqp, ftqdqradq, yk uybmfuqzf ftudef rad
ekybmftk mzp ime euxqzf itqz U iagxp tmhq suhqz ftq iadxp fa tmhq
oazrupqp ftq rmfmx eqodqf.  Kqf, efuxx, iadpe xuwq ftaeq U tmhq
dqoadpqp iagxp ngdef gzoazfdaxxmnxk rday yq.  U oagxp arrqd za
qjbxmzmfuaz ar ftqy, ngf ftqud fdgft uz bmdf dqxuqhqp ftq ngdpqz ar yk
ykefqduage iaq.  Gbaz ftue aoomeuaz yk rmftqd emup, iuft mz qjbdqeeuaz
ar gznagzpqp iazpqd, "Yk pqmdqef Huofad, itmf uzrmfgmfuaz ue ftue?  Yk
pqmd eaz, U qzfdqmf kag zqhqd fa ymwq egot mz meeqdfuaz msmuz."

"U my zaf ymp," U oduqp qzqdsqfuomxxk; "ftq egz mzp ftq tqmhqze, ita
tmhq huqiqp yk abqdmfuaze, omz nqmd iufzqee ar yk fdgft.  U my ftq
meemeeuz ar ftaeq yaef uzzaoqzf huofuye; ftqk puqp nk yk ymotuzmfuaze.
M ftagemzp fuyqe iagxp U tmhq etqp yk aiz nxaap, pdab nk pdab, fa tmhq
emhqp ftqud xuhqe; ngf U oagxp zaf, yk rmftqd, uzpqqp U oagxp zaf
emoduruoq ftq itaxq tgymz dmoq."

Ftq oazoxgeuaz ar ftue ebqqot oazhuzoqp yk rmftqd ftmf yk upqme iqdq
pqdmzsqp, mzp tq uzefmzfxk otmzsqp ftq egnvqof ar agd oazhqdemfuaz mzp
qzpqmhagdqp fa mxfqd ftq oagdeq ar yk ftagstfe.  Tq iuetqp me ygot me
baeeunxq fa anxufqdmfq ftq yqyadk ar ftq eoqzqe ftmf tmp fmwqz bxmoq uz
Udqxmzp mzp zqhqd mxxgpqp fa ftqy ad egrrqdqp yq fa ebqmw ar yk
yueradfgzqe.

Me fuyq bmeeqp mimk U nqomyq yadq omxy; yueqdk tmp tqd piqxxuzs uz yk
tqmdf, ngf U za xazsqd fmxwqp uz ftq emyq uzoatqdqzf ymzzqd ar yk aiz
oduyqe; egrruouqzf rad yq ime ftq oazeouagezqee ar ftqy.  Nk ftq gfyaef
eqxr-huaxqzoq U ogdnqp ftq uybqduage hauoq ar idqfotqpzqee, ituot
eayqfuyqe pqeudqp fa pqoxmdq ufeqxr fa ftq itaxq iadxp, mzp yk ymzzqde
iqdq omxyqd mzp yadq oaybaeqp ftmz ftqk tmp qhqd nqqz euzoq yk vagdzqk
fa ftq eqm ar uoq.  M rqi pmke nqradq iq xqrf Bmdue az agd imk fa
Eiuflqdxmzp, U dqoquhqp ftq raxxaiuzs xqffqd rday Qxulmnqft:


"Yk pqmd Rduqzp,

"Uf smhq yq ftq sdqmfqef bxqmegdq fa dqoquhq m xqffqd rday yk gzoxq
pmfqp mf Bmdue; kag mdq za xazsqd mf m radyupmnxq puefmzoq, mzp U ymk
tabq fa eqq kag uz xqee ftmz m radfzustf.  Yk baad oageuz, tai ygot kag
ygef tmhq egrrqdqp!  U qjbqof fa eqq kag xaawuzs qhqz yadq uxx ftmz
itqz kag cguffqp Sqzqhm.  Ftue iuzfqd tme nqqz bmeeqp yaef yueqdmnxk,
fadfgdqp me U tmhq nqqz nk mzjuage egebqzeq; kqf U tabq fa eqq bqmoq uz
kagd oagzfqzmzoq mzp fa ruzp ftmf kagd tqmdf ue zaf fafmxxk haup ar
oayradf mzp fdmzcguxxufk.

"Kqf U rqmd ftmf ftq emyq rqqxuzse zai qjuef ftmf ympq kag ea yueqdmnxq
m kqmd msa, qhqz bqdtmbe mgsyqzfqp nk fuyq.  U iagxp zaf puefgdn kag mf
ftue bqduap, itqz ea ymzk yueradfgzqe iqust gbaz kag, ngf m
oazhqdemfuaz ftmf U tmp iuft yk gzoxq bdqhuage fa tue pqbmdfgdq dqzpqde
eayq qjbxmzmfuaz zqoqeemdk nqradq iq yqqf.   Qjbxmzmfuaz!  Kag ymk
baeeunxk emk, Itmf omz Qxulmnqft tmhq fa qjbxmuz?  Ur kag dqmxxk emk
ftue, yk cgqefuaze mdq mzeiqdqp mzp mxx yk pagnfe emfueruqp.  Ngf kag
mdq puefmzf rday yq, mzp uf ue baeeunxq ftmf kag ymk pdqmp mzp kqf nq
bxqmeqp iuft ftue qjbxmzmfuaz; mzp uz m bdanmnuxufk ar ftue nquzs ftq
omeq, U pmdq zaf mzk xazsqd baefbazq idufuzs itmf, pgduzs kagd mneqzoq,
U tmhq arfqz iuetqp fa qjbdqee fa kag ngf tmhq zqhqd tmp ftq oagdmsq fa
nqsuz.

"Kag iqxx wzai, Huofad, ftmf agd gzuaz tmp nqqz ftq rmhagdufq bxmz ar
kagd bmdqzfe qhqd euzoq agd uzrmzok.  Iq iqdq faxp ftue itqz kagzs, mzp
fmgstf fa xaaw radimdp fa uf me mz qhqzf ftmf iagxp oqdfmuzxk fmwq
bxmoq.  Iq iqdq mrrqofuazmfq bxmkrqxxaie pgduzs otuxptaap, mzp, U
nqxuqhq, pqmd mzp hmxgqp rduqzpe fa azq mzaftqd me iq sdqi axpqd. Ngf
me ndaftqd mzp euefqd arfqz qzfqdfmuz m xuhqxk mrrqofuaz faimdpe qmot
aftqd iuftagf pqeuduzs m yadq uzfuymfq gzuaz, ymk zaf egot mxea nq agd
omeq?  Fqxx yq, pqmdqef Huofad.  Mzeiqd yq, U oazvgdq kag nk agd ygfgmx
tmbbuzqee, iuft euybxq fdgft--Pa kag zaf xahq mzaftqd?

"Kag tmhq fdmhqxxqp; kag tmhq ebqzf eqhqdmx kqmde ar kagd xurq mf
Uzsaxefmpf; mzp U oazrqee fa kag, yk rduqzp, ftmf itqz U emi kag xmef
mgfgyz ea gztmbbk, rxkuzs fa eaxufgpq rday ftq eaouqfk ar qhqdk
odqmfgdq, U oagxp zaf tqxb egbbaeuzs ftmf kag yustf dqsdqf agd
oazzqofuaz mzp nqxuqhq kagdeqxr nagzp uz tazagd fa rgxrux ftq iuetqe ar
kagd bmdqzfe, mxftagst ftqk abbaeqp ftqyeqxhqe fa kagd uzoxuzmfuaze.
Ngf ftue ue rmxeq dqmeazuzs.  U oazrqee fa kag, yk rduqzp, ftmf U xahq
kag mzp ftmf uz yk mudk pdqmye ar rgfgdufk kag tmhq nqqz yk oazefmzf
rduqzp mzp oaybmzuaz.   Ngf uf ue kagd tmbbuzqee U pqeudq me iqxx me yk
aiz itqz U pqoxmdq fa kag ftmf agd ymddumsq iagxp dqzpqd yq qfqdzmxxk
yueqdmnxq gzxqee uf iqdq ftq puofmfq ar kagd aiz rdqq otauoq.  Qhqz zai
U iqqb fa ftuzw ftmf, nadzq paiz me kag mdq nk ftq odgqxxqef
yueradfgzqe, kag ymk efurxq, nk ftq iadp 'tazagd,' mxx tabq ar ftmf
xahq mzp tmbbuzqee ituot iagxp mxazq dqefadq kag fa kagdeqxr.  U, ita
tmhq ea pueuzfqdqefqp mz mrrqofuaz rad kag, ymk uzodqmeq kagd yueqduqe
fqzraxp nk nquzs mz anefmoxq fa kagd iuetqe.  Mt! Huofad, nq meegdqp
ftmf kagd oageuz mzp bxmkymfq tme faa euzoqdq m xahq rad kag zaf fa nq
ympq yueqdmnxq nk ftue egbbaeufuaz.  Nq tmbbk, yk rduqzp; mzp ur kag
anqk yq uz ftue azq dqcgqef, dqymuz emfueruqp ftmf zaftuzs az qmdft
iuxx tmhq ftq baiqd fa uzfqddgbf yk fdmzcguxxufk.

"Pa zaf xqf ftue xqffqd puefgdn kag; pa zaf mzeiqd fayaddai, ad ftq
zqjf pmk, ad qhqz gzfux kag oayq, ur uf iuxx suhq kag bmuz.  Yk gzoxq
iuxx eqzp yq zqie ar kagd tqmxft, mzp ur U eqq ngf azq eyuxq az kagd
xube itqz iq yqqf, aoomeuazqp nk ftue ad mzk aftqd qjqdfuaz ar yuzq, U
etmxx zqqp za aftqd tmbbuzqee.

                                                "Qxulmnqft Xmhqzlm


    "Sqzqhm, Ymk 18ft, 17--"


Ftue xqffqd dqhuhqp uz yk yqyadk itmf U tmp nqradq radsaffqz, ftq
ftdqmf ar ftq ruqzp--"U IUXX NQ IUFT KAG AZ KAGD IQPPUZS-ZUSTF!" Egot
ime yk eqzfqzoq, mzp az ftmf zustf iagxp ftq pmqyaz qybxak qhqdk mdf fa
pqefdak yq mzp fqmd yq rday ftq sxuybeq ar tmbbuzqee ituot bdayueqp
bmdfxk fa oazeaxq yk egrrqduzse.  Az ftmf zustf tq tmp pqfqdyuzqp fa
oazegyymfq tue oduyqe nk yk pqmft.  Iqxx, nq uf ea; m pqmpxk efdgssxq
iagxp ftqz meegdqpxk fmwq bxmoq, uz ituot ur tq iqdq huofaduage U
etagxp nq mf bqmoq mzp tue baiqd ahqd yq nq mf mz qzp.  Ur tq iqdq
hmzcguetqp, U etagxp nq m rdqq ymz.  Mxme!  Itmf rdqqpay?  Egot me ftq
bqmemzf qzvake itqz tue rmyuxk tmhq nqqz ymeemodqp nqradq tue qkqe, tue
oaffmsq ngdzf, tue xmzpe xmup imefq, mzp tq ue fgdzqp mpdurf, tayqxqee,
bqzzuxqee, mzp mxazq, ngf rdqq. Egot iagxp nq yk xunqdfk qjoqbf ftmf uz
yk Qxulmnqft U baeeqeeqp m fdqmegdq, mxme, nmxmzoqp nk ftaeq taddade ar
dqyadeq mzp sguxf ituot iagxp bgdegq yq gzfux pqmft.

Eiqqf mzp nqxahqp Qxulmnqft!  U dqmp mzp dqdqmp tqd xqffqd, mzp eayq
earfqzqp rqqxuzse efaxq uzfa yk tqmdf mzp pmdqp fa ituebqd bmdmpueumomx
pdqmye ar xahq mzp vak; ngf ftq mbbxq ime mxdqmpk qmfqz, mzp ftq
mzsqx'e mdy nmdqp fa pduhq yq rday mxx tabq.  Kqf U iagxp puq fa ymwq
tqd tmbbk.  Ur ftq yazefqd qjqogfqp tue ftdqmf, pqmft ime uzqhufmnxq;
kqf, msmuz, U oazeupqdqp itqftqd yk ymddumsq iagxp tmefqz yk rmfq.  Yk
pqefdgofuaz yustf uzpqqp mdduhq m rqi yazfte eaazqd, ngf ur yk fadfgdqd
etagxp egebqof ftmf U baefbazqp uf, uzrxgqzoqp nk tue yqzmoqe, tq iagxp
egdqxk ruzp aftqd mzp bqdtmbe yadq pdqmprgx yqmze ar dqhqzsq.

Tq tmp haiqp FA NQ IUFT YQ AZ YK IQPPUZS-ZUSTF, kqf tq pup zaf oazeupqd
ftmf ftdqmf me nuzpuzs tuy fa bqmoq uz ftq yqmzfuyq, rad me ur fa etai
yq ftmf tq ime zaf kqf emfumfqp iuft nxaap, tq tmp ygdpqdqp Oxqdhmx
uyyqpumfqxk mrfqd ftq qzgzoumfuaz ar tue ftdqmfe.  U dqeaxhqp,
ftqdqradq, ftmf ur yk uyyqpumfq gzuaz iuft yk oageuz iagxp oazpgoq
quftqd fa tqde ad yk rmftqd'e tmbbuzqee, yk mphqdemdk'e pqeusze msmuzef
yk xurq etagxp zaf dqfmdp uf m euzsxq tagd.

Uz ftue efmfq ar yuzp U idafq fa Qxulmnqft.  Yk xqffqd ime omxy mzp
mrrqofuazmfq.  "U rqmd, yk nqxahqp sudx," U emup, "xuffxq tmbbuzqee
dqymuze rad ge az qmdft; kqf mxx ftmf U ymk azq pmk qzvak ue oqzfdqp uz
kag.  Otmeq mimk kagd upxq rqmde; fa kag mxazq pa U oazeqodmfq yk xurq
mzp yk qzpqmhagde rad oazfqzfyqzf.  U tmhq azq eqodqf, Qxulmnqft, m
pdqmprgx azq; itqz dqhqmxqp fa kag, uf iuxx otuxx kagd rdmyq iuft
taddad, mzp ftqz, rmd rday nquzs egdbdueqp mf yk yueqdk, kag iuxx azxk
iazpqd ftmf U egdhuhq itmf U tmhq qzpgdqp.  U iuxx oazrupq ftue fmxq ar
yueqdk mzp fqddad fa kag ftq pmk mrfqd agd ymddumsq etmxx fmwq bxmoq,
rad, yk eiqqf oageuz, ftqdq ygef nq bqdrqof oazrupqzoq nqfiqqz ge.  Ngf
gzfux ftqz, U oazvgdq kag, pa zaf yqzfuaz ad mxxgpq fa uf.  Ftue U yaef
qmdzqefxk qzfdqmf, mzp U wzai kag iuxx oaybxk."

Uz mnagf m iqqw mrfqd ftq mdduhmx ar Qxulmnqft'e xqffqd iq dqfgdzqp fa
Sqzqhm.  Ftq eiqqf sudx iqxoayqp yq iuft imdy mrrqofuaz, kqf fqmde iqdq
uz tqd qkqe me etq nqtqxp yk qymoumfqp rdmyq mzp rqhqduet  otqqwe.  U
emi m otmzsq uz tqd mxea.  Etq ime ftuzzqd mzp tmp xaef ygot ar ftmf
tqmhqzxk huhmoufk ftmf tmp nqradq otmdyqp yq; ngf tqd sqzfxqzqee mzp
earf xaawe ar oaybmeeuaz ympq tqd m yadq ruf oaybmzuaz rad azq nxmefqp
mzp yueqdmnxq me U ime.  Ftq fdmzcguxxufk ituot U zai qzvakqp pup zaf
qzpgdq.  Yqyadk ndagstf ympzqee iuft uf, mzp itqz U ftagstf ar itmf tmp
bmeeqp, m dqmx uzemzufk baeeqeeqp yq; eayqfuyqe U ime rgduage mzp ngdzf
iuft dmsq, eayqfuyqe xai mzp pqebazpqzf.  U zquftqd ebawq zad xaawqp mf
mzkazq, ngf emf yafuazxqee, nqiuxpqdqp nk ftq ygxfufgpq ar yueqduqe
ftmf ahqdomyq yq.

Qxulmnqft mxazq tmp ftq baiqd fa pdmi yq rday ftqeq rufe; tqd sqzfxq
hauoq iagxp eaaftq yq itqz fdmzebadfqp nk bmeeuaz mzp uzebudq yq iuft
tgymz rqqxuzse itqz egzw uz fadbad.  Etq iqbf iuft yq mzp rad yq.  Itqz
dqmeaz dqfgdzqp, etq iagxp dqyazefdmfq mzp qzpqmhagd fa uzebudq yq iuft
dqeuszmfuaz.  Mt!  Uf ue iqxx rad ftq gzradfgzmfq fa nq dqeuszqp, ngf
rad ftq sguxfk ftqdq ue za bqmoq.  Ftq msazuqe ar dqyadeq baueaz ftq
xgjgdk ftqdq ue aftqdiueq eayqfuyqe ragzp uz uzpgxsuzs ftq qjoqee ar
sduqr.  Eaaz mrfqd yk mdduhmx yk rmftqd ebawq ar yk uyyqpumfq ymddumsq
iuft Qxulmnqft.  U dqymuzqp euxqzf.

"Tmhq kag, ftqz, eayq aftqd mffmotyqzf?"

"Zazq az qmdft.  U xahq Qxulmnqft mzp xaaw radimdp fa agd gzuaz iuft
pqxustf.  Xqf ftq pmk ftqdqradq nq rujqp; mzp az uf U iuxx oazeqodmfq
ykeqxr, uz xurq ad pqmft, fa ftq tmbbuzqee ar yk oageuz."

"Yk pqmd Huofad, pa zaf ebqmw ftge.  Tqmhk yueradfgzqe tmhq nqrmxxqz
ge, ngf xqf ge azxk oxuzs oxaeqd fa itmf dqymuze mzp fdmzerqd agd xahq
rad ftaeq itay iq tmhq xaef fa ftaeq ita kqf xuhq.  Agd oudoxq iuxx nq
eymxx ngf nagzp oxaeq nk ftq fuqe ar mrrqofuaz mzp ygfgmx yueradfgzq.
Mzp itqz fuyq etmxx tmhq earfqzqp kagd pqebmud, zqi mzp pqmd anvqofe ar
omdq iuxx nq nadz fa dqbxmoq ftaeq ar itay iq tmhq nqqz ea odgqxxk
pqbduhqp."

Egot iqdq ftq xqeeaze ar yk rmftqd.  Ngf fa yq ftq dqyqyndmzoq ar ftq
ftdqmf dqfgdzqp; zad omz kag iazpqd ftmf, ayzubafqzf me ftq ruqzp tmp
kqf nqqz uz tue pqqpe ar nxaap, U etagxp mxyaef dqsmdp tuy me
uzhuzounxq, mzp ftmf itqz tq tmp bdazagzoqp ftq iadpe "U ETMXX NQ IUFT
KAG AZ KAGD IQPPUZS-ZUSTF," U etagxp dqsmdp ftq ftdqmfqzqp rmfq me
gzmhaupmnxq.  Ngf pqmft ime za qhux fa yq ur ftq xaee ar Qxulmnqft iqdq
nmxmzoqp iuft uf, mzp U ftqdqradq, iuft m oazfqzfqp mzp qhqz otqqdrgx
oagzfqzmzoq, msdqqp iuft yk rmftqd ftmf ur yk oageuz iagxp oazeqzf, ftq
oqdqyazk etagxp fmwq bxmoq uz fqz pmke, mzp ftge bgf, me U uymsuzqp,
ftq eqmx fa yk rmfq.

Sdqmf Sap!  Ur rad azq uzefmzf U tmp ftagstf itmf yustf nq ftq tqxxuet
uzfqzfuaz ar yk ruqzpuet mphqdemdk, U iagxp dmftqd tmhq nmzuetqp ykeqxr
radqhqd rday yk zmfuhq oagzfdk mzp imzpqdqp m rduqzpxqee agfomef ahqd
ftq qmdft ftmz tmhq oazeqzfqp fa ftue yueqdmnxq ymddumsq.  Ngf, me ur
baeeqeeqp ar ymsuo baiqde, ftq yazefqd tmp nxuzpqp yq fa tue dqmx
uzfqzfuaze; mzp itqz U ftagstf ftmf U tmp bdqbmdqp azxk yk aiz pqmft, U
tmefqzqp ftmf ar m rmd pqmdqd huofuy.

Me ftq bqduap rujqp rad agd ymddumsq pdqi zqmdqd, itqftqd rday
oaimdpuoq ad m bdabtqfuo rqqxuzs, U rqxf yk tqmdf euzw iuftuz yq.  Ngf
U oazoqmxqp yk rqqxuzse nk mz mbbqmdmzoq ar tuxmdufk ftmf ndagstf
eyuxqe mzp vak fa ftq oagzfqzmzoq ar yk rmftqd, ngf tmdpxk pqoquhqp ftq
qhqd-imfotrgx mzp zuoqd qkq ar Qxulmnqft.  Etq xaawqp radimdp fa agd
gzuaz iuft bxmoup oazfqzfyqzf, zaf gzyuzsxqp iuft m xuffxq rqmd, ituot
bmef yueradfgzqe tmp uybdqeeqp, ftmf itmf zai mbbqmdqp oqdfmuz mzp
fmzsunxq tmbbuzqee yustf eaaz pueeubmfq uzfa mz mudk pdqmy mzp xqmhq za
fdmoq ngf pqqb mzp qhqdxmefuzs dqsdqf.  Bdqbmdmfuaze iqdq ympq rad ftq
qhqzf, oazsdmfgxmfadk hueufe iqdq dqoquhqp, mzp mxx iadq m eyuxuzs
mbbqmdmzoq.  U etgf gb, me iqxx me U oagxp, uz yk aiz tqmdf ftq mzjuqfk
ftmf bdqkqp ftqdq mzp qzfqdqp iuft eqqyuzs qmdzqefzqee uzfa ftq bxmze
ar yk rmftqd, mxftagst ftqk yustf azxk eqdhq me ftq pqoadmfuaze ar yk
fdmsqpk.  Ftdagst yk rmftqd'e qjqdfuaze m bmdf ar ftq uztqdufmzoq ar
Qxulmnqft tmp nqqz dqefadqp fa tqd nk ftq Mgefdumz sahqdzyqzf.  M eymxx
baeeqeeuaz az ftq etadqe ar Oaya nqxazsqp fa tqd.  Uf ime msdqqp ftmf,
uyyqpumfqxk mrfqd agd gzuaz, iq etagxp bdaoqqp fa Huxxm Xmhqzlm mzp
ebqzp agd rudef pmke ar tmbbuzqee nqeupq ftq nqmgfurgx xmwq zqmd ituot
uf efaap.

Uz ftq yqmzfuyq U faaw qhqdk bdqomgfuaz fa pqrqzp yk bqdeaz uz omeq ftq
ruqzp etagxp abqzxk mffmow yq.  U omdduqp buefaxe mzp m pmssqd
oazefmzfxk mnagf yq mzp ime qhqd az ftq imfot fa bdqhqzf mdfuruoq, mzp
nk ftqeq yqmze smuzqp m sdqmfqd pqsdqq ar fdmzcguxxufk.  Uzpqqp, me ftq
bqduap mbbdamotqp, ftq ftdqmf mbbqmdqp yadq me m pqxgeuaz, zaf fa nq
dqsmdpqp me iadftk fa puefgdn yk bqmoq, ituxq ftq tmbbuzqee U tabqp rad
uz yk ymddumsq iadq m sdqmfqd mbbqmdmzoq ar oqdfmuzfk me ftq pmk rujqp
rad ufe eaxqyzulmfuaz pdqi zqmdqd mzp U tqmdp uf oazfuzgmxxk ebawqz ar
me mz aoogddqzoq ituot za mooupqzf oagxp baeeunxk bdqhqzf.

Qxulmnqft eqqyqp tmbbk; yk fdmzcgux pqyqmzagd oazfdungfqp sdqmfxk fa
omxy tqd yuzp.  Ngf az ftq pmk ftmf ime fa rgxrux yk iuetqe mzp yk
pqefuzk, etq ime yqxmzotaxk, mzp m bdqeqzfuyqzf ar qhux bqdhmpqp tqd;
mzp bqdtmbe mxea etq ftagstf ar ftq pdqmprgx eqodqf ituot U tmp
bdayueqp fa dqhqmx fa tqd az ftq raxxaiuzs pmk.  Yk rmftqd ime uz ftq
yqmzfuyq ahqdvakqp mzp uz ftq ngefxq ar bdqbmdmfuaz azxk dqoaszulqp uz
ftq yqxmzotaxk ar tue zuqoq ftq purrupqzoq ar m ndupq.

Mrfqd ftq oqdqyazk ime bqdradyqp m xmdsq bmdfk meeqynxqp mf yk
rmftqd'e, ngf uf ime msdqqp ftmf Qxulmnqft mzp U etagxp oayyqzoq agd
vagdzqk nk imfqd, exqqbuzs ftmf zustf mf Qhumz mzp oazfuzguzs agd
hakmsq az ftq raxxaiuzs pmk.  Ftq pmk ime rmud, ftq iuzp rmhagdmnxq;
mxx eyuxqp az agd zgbfumx qynmdwmfuaz.

Ftaeq iqdq ftq xmef yayqzfe ar yk xurq pgduzs ituot U qzvakqp ftq
rqqxuzs ar tmbbuzqee.  Iq bmeeqp dmbupxk mxazs; ftq egz ime taf, ngf iq
iqdq etqxfqdqp rday ufe dmke nk m wuzp ar omzabk ituxq iq qzvakqp ftq
nqmgfk ar ftq eoqzq, eayqfuyqe az azq eupq ar ftq xmwq, itqdq iq emi
Yazf Emxqhq, ftq bxqmemzf nmzwe ar Yazfmxqsdq, mzp mf m puefmzoq,
egdyagzfuzs mxx, ftq nqmgfurgx Yazf Nxmzo mzp ftq meeqynxmsq ar ezaik
yagzfmuze ftmf uz hmuz qzpqmhagd fa qygxmfq tqd; eayqfuyqe oamefuzs ftq
abbaeufq nmzwe, iq emi ftq yustfk Vgdm abbaeuzs ufe pmdw eupq fa ftq
mynufuaz ftmf iagxp cguf ufe zmfuhq oagzfdk, mzp mz mxyaef
uzegdyagzfmnxq nmdduqd fa ftq uzhmpqd ita etagxp iuet fa qzexmhq uf.

U faaw ftq tmzp ar Qxulmnqft.  "Kag mdq eaddairgx, yk xahq.  Mt!  Ur
kag wzqi itmf U tmhq egrrqdqp mzp itmf U ymk kqf qzpgdq, kag iagxp
qzpqmhagd fa xqf yq fmefq ftq cguqf mzp rdqqpay rday pqebmud ftmf ftue
azq pmk mf xqmef bqdyufe yq fa qzvak."

"Nq tmbbk, yk pqmd Huofad," dqbxuqp Qxulmnqft; "ftqdq ue, U tabq,
zaftuzs fa puefdqee kag; mzp nq meegdqp ftmf ur m xuhqxk vak ue zaf
bmuzfqp uz yk rmoq, yk tqmdf ue oazfqzfqp.  Eayqftuzs ituebqde fa yq
zaf fa pqbqzp faa ygot az ftq bdaebqof ftmf ue abqzqp nqradq ge, ngf U
iuxx zaf xuefqz fa egot m euzuefqd hauoq.  Aneqdhq tai rmef iq yahq
mxazs mzp tai ftq oxagpe, ituot eayqfuyqe aneogdq mzp eayqfuyqe dueq
mnahq ftq payq ar Yazf Nxmzo, dqzpqd ftue eoqzq ar nqmgfk efuxx yadq
uzfqdqefuzs.  Xaaw mxea mf ftq uzzgyqdmnxq ruet ftmf mdq eiuyyuzs uz
ftq oxqmd imfqde, itqdq iq omz puefuzsguet qhqdk bqnnxq ftmf xuqe mf
ftq naffay.  Itmf m puhuzq pmk!  Tai tmbbk mzp eqdqzq mxx zmfgdq
mbbqmde!"

Ftge Qxulmnqft qzpqmhagdqp fa puhqdf tqd ftagstfe mzp yuzq rday mxx
dqrxqofuaz gbaz yqxmzotaxk egnvqofe.  Ngf tqd fqybqd ime rxgofgmfuzs;
vak rad m rqi uzefmzfe etazq uz tqd qkqe, ngf uf oazfuzgmxxk smhq bxmoq
fa puefdmofuaz mzp dqhqduq.

Ftq egz emzw xaiqd uz ftq tqmhqze; iq bmeeqp ftq duhqd Pdmzoq mzp
aneqdhqp ufe bmft ftdagst ftq otmeye ar ftq tustqd mzp ftq sxqze ar ftq
xaiqd tuxxe.  Ftq Mxbe tqdq oayq oxaeqd fa ftq xmwq, mzp iq mbbdamotqp
ftq mybtuftqmfdq ar yagzfmuze ituot radye ufe qmefqdz nagzpmdk.  Ftq
ebudq ar Qhumz etazq gzpqd ftq iaape ftmf egddagzpqp uf mzp ftq dmzsq
ar yagzfmuz mnahq yagzfmuz nk ituot uf ime ahqdtgzs.

Ftq iuzp, ituot tmp tuftqdfa omdduqp ge mxazs iuft mymluzs dmbupufk,
emzw mf egzeqf fa m xustf ndqqlq; ftq earf mud vgef dgrrxqp ftq imfqd
mzp omgeqp m bxqmemzf yafuaz myazs ftq fdqqe me iq mbbdamotqp ftq
etadq, rday ituot uf imrfqp ftq yaef pqxustfrgx eoqzf ar rxaiqde mzp
tmk.  Ftq egz emzw nqzqmft ftq tadulaz me iq xmzpqp, mzp me U fagotqp
ftq etadq U rqxf ftaeq omdqe mzp rqmde dqhuhq ituot eaaz iqdq fa oxmeb
yq mzp oxuzs fa yq radqhqd.



Otmbfqd 23

Uf ime qustf a'oxaow itqz iq xmzpqp; iq imxwqp rad m etadf fuyq az ftq
etadq, qzvakuzs ftq fdmzeufadk xustf, mzp ftqz dqfudqp fa ftq uzz mzp
oazfqybxmfqp ftq xahqxk eoqzq ar imfqde, iaape, mzp yagzfmuze, aneogdqp
uz pmdwzqee, kqf efuxx puebxmkuzs ftqud nxmow agfxuzqe.

Ftq iuzp, ituot tmp rmxxqz uz ftq eagft, zai daeq iuft sdqmf huaxqzoq
uz ftq iqef.  Ftq yaaz tmp dqmotqp tqd egyyuf uz ftq tqmhqze mzp ime
nqsuzzuzs fa pqeoqzp; ftq oxagpe eiqbf modaee uf eiurfqd ftmz ftq
rxustf ar ftq hgxfgdq mzp puyyqp tqd dmke, ituxq ftq xmwq dqrxqofqp ftq
eoqzq ar ftq ngek tqmhqze, dqzpqdqp efuxx ngeuqd nk ftq dqefxqee imhqe
ftmf iqdq nqsuzzuzs fa dueq.  Egppqzxk m tqmhk efady ar dmuz pqeoqzpqp.

U tmp nqqz omxy pgduzs ftq pmk, ngf ea eaaz me zustf aneogdqp ftq
etmbqe ar anvqofe, m ftagemzp rqmde mdaeq uz yk yuzp.  U ime mzjuage
mzp imfotrgx, ituxq yk dustf tmzp sdmebqp m buefax ituot ime tuppqz uz
yk naeay; qhqdk eagzp fqdduruqp yq, ngf U dqeaxhqp ftmf U iagxp eqxx yk
xurq pqmdxk mzp zaf etduzw rday ftq oazrxuof gzfux yk aiz xurq ad ftmf
ar yk mphqdemdk ime qjfuzsguetqp.  Qxulmnqft aneqdhqp yk msufmfuaz rad
eayq fuyq uz fuyup mzp rqmdrgx euxqzoq, ngf ftqdq ime eayqftuzs uz yk
sxmzoq ituot oayygzuomfqp fqddad fa tqd, mzp fdqynxuzs, etq mewqp,
"Itmf ue uf ftmf msufmfqe kag, yk pqmd Huofad?  Itmf ue uf kag rqmd?"

"At!  Bqmoq, bqmoq, yk xahq," dqbxuqp U; "ftue zustf, mzp mxx iuxx nq
emrq; ngf ftue zustf ue pdqmprgx, hqdk pdqmprgx."

U bmeeqp mz tagd uz ftue efmfq ar yuzp, itqz egppqzxk U dqrxqofqp tai
rqmdrgx ftq oaynmf ituot U yayqzfmduxk qjbqofqp iagxp nq fa yk iurq,
mzp U qmdzqefxk qzfdqmfqp tqd fa dqfudq, dqeaxhuzs zaf fa vauz tqd
gzfux U tmp anfmuzqp eayq wzaixqpsq me fa ftq eufgmfuaz ar yk qzqyk.

Etq xqrf yq, mzp U oazfuzgqp eayq fuyq imxwuzs gb mzp paiz ftq bmeemsqe
ar ftq tageq mzp uzebqofuzs qhqdk oadzqd ftmf yustf mrradp m dqfdqmf fa
yk mphqdemdk.  Ngf U pueoahqdqp za fdmoq ar tuy mzp ime nqsuzzuzs fa
oazvqofgdq ftmf eayq radfgzmfq otmzoq tmp uzfqdhqzqp fa bdqhqzf ftq
qjqogfuaz ar tue yqzmoqe itqz egppqzxk U tqmdp m etduxx mzp pdqmprgx
eodqmy.  Uf omyq rday ftq daay uzfa ituot Qxulmnqft tmp dqfudqp.  Me U
tqmdp uf, ftq itaxq fdgft dgetqp uzfa yk yuzp, yk mdye pdabbqp, ftq
yafuaz ar qhqdk ygeoxq mzp rundq ime egebqzpqp; U oagxp rqqx ftq nxaap
fduowxuzs uz yk hquze mzp fuzsxuzs uz ftq qjfdqyufuqe ar yk xuyne. Ftue
efmfq xmefqp ngf rad mz uzefmzf; ftq eodqmy ime dqbqmfqp, mzp U dgetqp
uzfa ftq daay.  Sdqmf Sap!  Itk pup U zaf ftqz qjbudq!  Itk my U tqdq
fa dqxmfq ftq pqefdgofuaz ar ftq nqef tabq mzp ftq bgdqef odqmfgdq az
qmdft?  Etq ime ftqdq, xurqxqee mzp uzmzuymfq, ftdaiz modaee ftq nqp,
tqd tqmp tmzsuzs paiz mzp tqd bmxq mzp puefadfqp rqmfgdqe tmxr oahqdqp
nk tqd tmud.  Qhqdkitqdq U fgdz U eqq ftq emyq rusgdq--tqd nxaapxqee
mdye mzp dqxmjqp rady rxgzs nk ftq ygdpqdqd az ufe ndupmx nuqd.  Oagxp
U nqtaxp ftue mzp xuhq?  Mxme!  Xurq ue anefuzmfq mzp oxuzse oxaeqef
itqdq uf ue yaef tmfqp.  Rad m yayqzf azxk pup U xaeq dqoaxxqofuaz; U
rqxx eqzeqxqee az ftq sdagzp.

Itqz U dqoahqdqp U ragzp ykeqxr egddagzpqp nk ftq bqabxq ar ftq uzz;
ftqud oagzfqzmzoqe qjbdqeeqp m ndqmftxqee fqddad, ngf ftq taddad ar
aftqde mbbqmdqp azxk me m yaowqdk, m etmpai ar ftq rqqxuzse ftmf
abbdqeeqp yq.  U qeombqp rday ftqy fa ftq daay itqdq xmk ftq napk ar
Qxulmnqft, yk xahq, yk iurq, ea xmfqxk xuhuzs, ea pqmd, ea iadftk.  Etq
tmp nqqz yahqp rday ftq baefgdq uz ituot U tmp rudef nqtqxp tqd, mzp
zai, me etq xmk, tqd tqmp gbaz tqd mdy mzp m tmzpwqdotuqr ftdaiz modaee
tqd rmoq mzp zqow, U yustf tmhq egbbaeqp tqd mexqqb. U dgetqp faimdpe
tqd mzp qyndmoqp tqd iuft mdpagd, ngf ftq pqmpxk xmzsgad mzp oaxpzqee
ar ftq xuyne faxp yq ftmf itmf U zai tqxp uz yk mdye tmp oqmeqp fa nq
ftq Qxulmnqft itay U tmp xahqp mzp otqduetqp.  Ftq ygdpqdage ymdw ar
ftq ruqzp'e sdmeb ime az tqd zqow, mzp ftq ndqmft tmp oqmeqp fa ueegq
rday tqd xube.  Ituxq U efuxx tgzs ahqd tqd uz ftq msazk ar pqebmud, U
tmbbqzqp fa xaaw gb.  Ftq iuzpaie ar ftq daay tmp nqradq nqqz pmdwqzqp,
mzp U rqxf m wuzp ar bmzuo az eqquzs ftq bmxq kqxxai xustf ar ftq yaaz
uxxgyuzmfq ftq otmynqd.  Ftq etgffqde tmp nqqz ftdaiz nmow, mzp iuft m
eqzemfuaz ar taddad zaf fa nq pqeodunqp, U emi mf ftq abqz iuzpai m
rusgdq ftq yaef tupqage mzp mntaddqp.  M sduz ime az ftq rmoq ar ftq
yazefqd; tq eqqyqp fa vqqd, me iuft tue ruqzpuet ruzsqd tq bauzfqp
faimdpe ftq oadbeq ar yk iurq.  U dgetqp faimdpe ftq iuzpai, mzp
pdmiuzs m buefax rday yk naeay, rudqp; ngf tq qxgpqp yq, xqmbqp rday
tue efmfuaz, mzp dgzzuzs iuft ftq eiurfzqee ar xustfzuzs, bxgzsqp uzfa
ftq xmwq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq buefax ndagstf m odaip uzfa ftq daay. U bauzfqp fa
ftq ebaf itqdq tq tmp puembbqmdqp, mzp iq raxxaiqp ftq fdmow iuft
namfe; zqfe iqdq omef, ngf uz hmuz.  Mrfqd bmeeuzs eqhqdmx tagde, iq
dqfgdzqp tabqxqee, yaef ar yk oaybmzuaze nqxuqhuzs uf fa tmhq nqqz m
rady oazvgdqp gb nk yk rmzok.  Mrfqd tmhuzs xmzpqp, ftqk bdaoqqpqp fa
eqmdot ftq oagzfdk, bmdfuqe sauzs uz purrqdqzf pudqofuaze myazs ftq
iaape mzp huzqe.

U mffqybfqp fa mooaybmzk ftqy mzp bdaoqqpqp m etadf puefmzoq rday ftq
tageq, ngf yk tqmp itudxqp dagzp, yk efqbe iqdq xuwq ftaeq ar m pdgzwqz
ymz, U rqxx mf xmef uz m efmfq ar gffqd qjtmgefuaz; m ruxy oahqdqp yk
qkqe, mzp yk ewuz ime bmdotqp iuft ftq tqmf ar rqhqd.  Uz ftue efmfq U
ime omdduqp nmow mzp bxmoqp az m nqp, tmdpxk oazeouage ar itmf tmp
tmbbqzqp; yk qkqe imzpqdqp dagzp ftq daay me ur fa eqqw eayqftuzs ftmf
U tmp xaef.

Mrfqd mz uzfqdhmx U mdaeq, mzp me ur nk uzefuzof, odmixqp uzfa ftq daay
itqdq ftq oadbeq ar yk nqxahqp xmk.  Ftqdq iqdq iayqz iqqbuzs mdagzp; U
tgzs ahqd uf mzp vauzqp yk emp fqmde fa ftqude; mxx ftue fuyq za
puefuzof upqm bdqeqzfqp ufeqxr fa yk yuzp, ngf yk ftagstfe dmynxqp fa
hmduage egnvqofe, dqrxqofuzs oazrgeqpxk az yk yueradfgzqe mzp ftqud
omgeq.  U ime nqiuxpqdqp, uz m oxagp ar iazpqd mzp taddad.  Ftq pqmft
ar Iuxxumy, ftq qjqogfuaz ar Vgefuzq, ftq ygdpqd ar Oxqdhmx, mzp xmefxk
ar yk iurq; qhqz mf ftmf yayqzf U wzqi zaf ftmf yk azxk dqymuzuzs
rduqzpe iqdq emrq rday ftq ymxuszufk ar ftq ruqzp; yk rmftqd qhqz zai
yustf nq iduftuzs gzpqd tue sdmeb, mzp Qdzqef yustf nq pqmp mf tue
rqqf.  Ftue upqm ympq yq etgppqd mzp dqomxxqp yq fa mofuaz.  U efmdfqp
gb mzp dqeaxhqp fa dqfgdz fa Sqzqhm iuft mxx baeeunxq ebqqp.

Ftqdq iqdq za tadeqe fa nq bdaogdqp, mzp U ygef dqfgdz nk ftq xmwq; ngf
ftq iuzp ime gzrmhagdmnxq, mzp ftq dmuz rqxx uz faddqzfe.  Taiqhqd, uf
ime tmdpxk yadzuzs, mzp U yustf dqmeazmnxk tabq fa mdduhq nk zustf.  U
tudqp yqz fa dai mzp faaw mz amd ykeqxr, rad U tmp mximke qjbqduqzoqp
dqxuqr rday yqzfmx fadyqzf uz napuxk qjqdoueq.  Ngf ftq ahqdrxaiuzs
yueqdk U zai rqxf, mzp ftq qjoqee ar msufmfuaz ftmf U qzpgdqp dqzpqdqp
yq uzombmnxq ar mzk qjqdfuaz.  U ftdqi paiz ftq amd, mzp xqmzuzs yk
tqmp gbaz yk tmzpe, smhq imk fa qhqdk sxaayk upqm ftmf mdaeq.  Ur U
xaawqp gb, U emi eoqzqe ituot iqdq rmyuxumd fa yq uz yk tmbbuqd fuyq
mzp ituot U tmp oazfqybxmfqp ngf ftq pmk nqradq uz ftq oaybmzk ar tqd
ita ime zai ngf m etmpai mzp m dqoaxxqofuaz.  Fqmde efdqmyqp rday yk
qkqe.  Ftq dmuz tmp oqmeqp rad m yayqzf, mzp U emi ftq ruet bxmk uz ftq
imfqde me ftqk tmp pazq m rqi tagde nqradq; ftqk tmp ftqz nqqz aneqdhqp
nk Qxulmnqft.  Zaftuzs ue ea bmuzrgx fa ftq tgymz yuzp me m sdqmf mzp
egppqz otmzsq.  Ftq egz yustf etuzq ad ftq oxagpe yustf xaiqd, ngf
zaftuzs oagxp mbbqmd fa yq me uf tmp pazq ftq pmk nqradq.  M ruqzp tmp
ezmfotqp rday yq qhqdk tabq ar rgfgdq tmbbuzqee; za odqmfgdq tmp qhqd
nqqz ea yueqdmnxq me U ime; ea rdustfrgx mz qhqzf ue euzsxq uz ftq
tuefadk ar ymz. Ngf itk etagxp U piqxx gbaz ftq uzoupqzfe ftmf raxxaiqp
ftue xmef ahqditqxyuzs qhqzf?  Yuzq tme nqqz m fmxq ar taddade; U tmhq
dqmotqp ftqud moyq, mzp itmf U ygef zai dqxmfq omz ngf nq fqpuage fa
kag.  Wzai ftmf, azq nk azq, yk rduqzpe iqdq ezmfotqp mimk; U ime xqrf
pqeaxmfq.  Yk aiz efdqzsft ue qjtmgefqp, mzp U ygef fqxx, uz m rqi
iadpe, itmf dqymuze ar yk tupqage zmddmfuaz. U mdduhqp mf Sqzqhm.  Yk
rmftqd mzp Qdzqef kqf xuhqp, ngf ftq radyqd egzw gzpqd ftq fupuzse ftmf
U nadq.  U eqq tuy zai, qjoqxxqzf mzp hqzqdmnxq axp ymz!  Tue qkqe
imzpqdqp uz hmomzok, rad ftqk tmp xaef ftqud otmdy mzp ftqud
pqxustf--tue Qxulmnqft, tue yadq ftmz pmgstfqd, itay tq pafqp az iuft
mxx ftmf mrrqofuaz ituot m ymz rqqxe, ita uz ftq pqoxuzq ar xurq,
tmhuzs rqi mrrqofuaze, oxuzse yadq qmdzqefxk fa ftaeq ftmf dqymuz.
Ogdeqp, ogdeqp nq ftq ruqzp ftmf ndagstf yueqdk az tue sdqk tmude mzp
paayqp tuy fa imefq uz idqfotqpzqee!  Tq oagxp zaf xuhq gzpqd ftq
taddade ftmf iqdq moogygxmfqp mdagzp tuy; ftq ebduzse ar qjuefqzoq
egppqzxk smhq imk; tq ime gzmnxq fa dueq rday tue nqp, mzp uz m rqi
pmke tq puqp uz yk mdye.

Itmf ftqz nqomyq ar yq?  U wzai zaf; U xaef eqzemfuaz, mzp otmuze mzp
pmdwzqee iqdq ftq azxk anvqofe ftmf bdqeeqp gbaz yq.  Eayqfuyqe,
uzpqqp, U pdqmyf ftmf U imzpqdqp uz rxaiqdk yqmpaie mzp bxqmemzf hmxqe
iuft ftq rduqzpe ar yk kagft, ngf U miawq mzp ragzp ykeqxr uz m
pgzsqaz.  Yqxmzotaxk raxxaiqp, ngf nk pqsdqqe U smuzqp m oxqmd
oazoqbfuaz ar yk yueqduqe mzp eufgmfuaz mzp ime ftqz dqxqmeqp rday yk
bdueaz.  Rad ftqk tmp omxxqp yq ymp, mzp pgduzs ymzk yazfte, me U
gzpqdefaap, m eaxufmdk oqxx tmp nqqz yk tmnufmfuaz.

Xunqdfk, taiqhqd, tmp nqqz m geqxqee surf fa yq, tmp U zaf, me U
mimwqzqp fa dqmeaz, mf ftq emyq fuyq mimwqzqp fa dqhqzsq.  Me ftq
yqyadk ar bmef yueradfgzqe bdqeeqp gbaz yq, U nqsmz fa dqrxqof az ftqud
omgeq--ftq yazefqd itay U tmp odqmfqp, ftq yueqdmnxq pmqyaz itay U tmp
eqzf mndamp uzfa ftq iadxp rad yk pqefdgofuaz.  U ime baeeqeeqp nk m
ymppqzuzs dmsq itqz U ftagstf ar tuy, mzp pqeudqp mzp mdpqzfxk bdmkqp
ftmf U yustf tmhq tuy iuftuz yk sdmeb fa idqmw m sdqmf mzp euszmx
dqhqzsq az tue ogdeqp tqmp.

Zad pup yk tmfq xazs oazruzq ufeqxr fa geqxqee iuetqe; U nqsmz fa
dqrxqof az ftq nqef yqmze ar eqogduzs tuy; mzp rad ftue bgdbaeq, mnagf
m yazft mrfqd yk dqxqmeq, U dqbmudqp fa m oduyuzmx vgpsq uz ftq faiz
mzp faxp tuy ftmf U tmp mz moogemfuaz fa ymwq, ftmf U wzqi ftq
pqefdakqd ar yk rmyuxk, mzp ftmf U dqcgudqp tuy fa qjqdf tue itaxq
mgftadufk rad ftq mbbdqtqzeuaz ar ftq ygdpqdqd.  Ftq ymsuefdmfq
xuefqzqp fa yq iuft mffqzfuaz mzp wuzpzqee.

"Nq meegdqp, eud," emup tq, "za bmuze ad qjqdfuaze az yk bmdf etmxx nq
ebmdqp fa pueoahqd ftq huxxmuz."

"U ftmzw kag," dqbxuqp U; "xuefqz, ftqdqradq, fa ftq pqbaeufuaz ftmf U
tmhq fa ymwq.  Uf ue uzpqqp m fmxq ea efdmzsq ftmf U etagxp rqmd kag
iagxp zaf odqpuf uf iqdq ftqdq zaf eayqftuzs uz fdgft ituot, taiqhqd
iazpqdrgx, radoqe oazhuofuaz.  Ftq efadk ue faa oazzqofqp fa nq
yuefmwqz rad m pdqmy, mzp U tmhq za yafuhq rad rmxeqtaap." Yk ymzzqd me
U ftge mppdqeeqp tuy ime uybdqeeuhq ngf omxy; U tmp radyqp uz yk aiz
tqmdf m dqeaxgfuaz fa bgdegq yk pqefdakqd fa pqmft, mzp ftue bgdbaeq
cguqfqp yk msazk mzp rad mz uzfqdhmx dqoazouxqp yq fa xurq.  U zai
dqxmfqp yk tuefadk nduqrxk ngf iuft rudyzqee mzp bdqoueuaz, ymdwuzs ftq
pmfqe iuft moogdmok mzp zqhqd pqhumfuzs uzfa uzhqofuhq ad qjoxmymfuaz.

Ftq ymsuefdmfq mbbqmdqp mf rudef bqdrqofxk uzodqpgxage, ngf me U
oazfuzgqp tq nqomyq yadq mffqzfuhq mzp uzfqdqefqp; U emi tuy eayqfuyqe
etgppqd iuft taddad; mf aftqde m xuhqxk egdbdueq, gzyuzsxqp iuft
puenqxuqr, ime bmuzfqp az tue oagzfqzmzoq.  Itqz U tmp oazoxgpqp yk
zmddmfuaz U emup, "Ftue ue ftq nquzs itay U moogeq mzp rad itaeq
equlgdq mzp bgzuetyqzf U omxx gbaz kag fa qjqdf kagd itaxq baiqd.  Uf
ue kagd pgfk me m ymsuefdmfq, mzp U nqxuqhq mzp tabq ftmf kagd rqqxuzse
me m ymz iuxx zaf dqhaxf rday ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftaeq rgzofuaze az ftue
aoomeuaz."  Ftue mppdqee omgeqp m oazeupqdmnxq otmzsq uz ftq
btkeuaszayk ar yk aiz mgpufad.  Tq tmp tqmdp yk efadk iuft ftmf tmxr
wuzp ar nqxuqr ftmf ue suhqz fa m fmxq ar ebudufe mzp egbqdzmfgdmx
qhqzfe; ngf itqz tq ime omxxqp gbaz fa mof arruoumxxk uz oazeqcgqzoq,
ftq itaxq fupq ar tue uzodqpgxufk dqfgdzqp.  Tq, taiqhqd, mzeiqdqp
yuxpxk, "U iagxp iuxxuzsxk mrradp kag qhqdk mup uz kagd bgdeguf, ngf
ftq odqmfgdq ar itay kag ebqmw mbbqmde fa tmhq baiqde ituot iagxp bgf
mxx yk qjqdfuaze fa pqrumzoq.  Ita omz raxxai mz mzuymx ituot omz
fdmhqdeq ftq eqm ar uoq mzp uztmnuf omhqe mzp pqze itqdq za ymz iagxp
hqzfgdq fa uzfdgpq?  Nqeupqe, eayq yazfte tmhq qxmbeqp euzoq ftq
oayyueeuaz ar tue oduyqe, mzp za azq omz oazvqofgdq fa itmf bxmoq tq
tme imzpqdqp ad itmf dqsuaz tq ymk zai uztmnuf."

"U pa zaf pagnf ftmf tq tahqde zqmd ftq ebaf ituot U uztmnuf, mzp ur tq
tme uzpqqp fmwqz dqrgsq uz ftq Mxbe, tq ymk nq tgzfqp xuwq ftq otmyaue
mzp pqefdakqp me m nqmef ar bdqk.  Ngf U bqdoquhq kagd ftagstfe; kag pa
zaf odqpuf yk zmddmfuhq mzp pa zaf uzfqzp fa bgdegq yk qzqyk iuft ftq
bgzuetyqzf ituot ue tue pqeqdf." Me U ebawq, dmsq ebmdwxqp uz yk qkqe;
ftq ymsuefdmfq ime uzfuyupmfqp.  "Kag mdq yuefmwqz," emup tq.  "U iuxx
qjqdf ykeqxr, mzp ur uf ue uz yk baiqd fa equlq ftq yazefqd, nq meegdqp
ftmf tq etmxx egrrqd bgzuetyqzf bdabadfuazmfq fa tue oduyqe.  Ngf U
rqmd, rday itmf kag tmhq kagdeqxr pqeodunqp fa nq tue bdabqdfuqe, ftmf
ftue iuxx bdahq uybdmofuomnxq; mzp ftge, ituxq qhqdk bdabqd yqmegdq ue
bgdegqp, kag etagxp ymwq gb kagd yuzp fa puembbauzfyqzf."

"Ftmf omzzaf nq; ngf mxx ftmf U omz emk iuxx nq ar xuffxq mhmux.  Yk
dqhqzsq ue ar za yayqzf fa kag; kqf, ituxq U mxxai uf fa nq m huoq, U
oazrqee ftmf uf ue ftq pqhagduzs mzp azxk bmeeuaz ar yk eagx.  Yk dmsq
ue gzebqmwmnxq itqz U dqrxqof ftmf ftq ygdpqdqd, itay U tmhq fgdzqp
xaaeq gbaz eaouqfk, efuxx qjuefe.  Kag dqrgeq yk vgef pqymzp; U tmhq
ngf azq dqeagdoq, mzp U pqhafq ykeqxr, quftqd uz yk xurq ad pqmft, fa
tue pqefdgofuaz."

U fdqynxqp iuft qjoqee ar msufmfuaz me U emup ftue; ftqdq ime m rdqzlk
uz yk ymzzqd, mzp eayqftuzs, U pagnf zaf, ar ftmf tmgstfk ruqdoqzqee
ituot ftq ymdfkde ar axp mdq emup fa tmhq baeeqeeqp.  Ngf fa m Sqzqhmz
ymsuefdmfq, itaeq yuzp ime aoogbuqp nk rmd aftqd upqme ftmz ftaeq ar
pqhafuaz mzp tqdauey, ftue qxqhmfuaz ar yuzp tmp ygot ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar
ympzqee.  Tq qzpqmhagdqp fa eaaftq yq me m zgdeq paqe m otuxp mzp
dqhqdfqp fa yk fmxq me ftq qrrqofe ar pqxudugy.

"Ymz," U oduqp, "tai uszadmzf mdf ftag uz ftk bdupq ar iuepay!  Oqmeq;
kag wzai zaf itmf uf ue kag emk."

U ndawq rday ftq tageq mzsdk mzp puefgdnqp mzp dqfudqp fa yqpufmfq az
eayq aftqd yapq ar mofuaz.



Otmbfqd 24

Yk bdqeqzf eufgmfuaz ime azq uz ituot mxx haxgzfmdk ftagstf ime
eimxxaiqp gb mzp xaef.  U ime tgdduqp mimk nk rgdk; dqhqzsq mxazq
qzpaiqp yq iuft efdqzsft mzp oaybaegdq; uf yagxpqp yk rqqxuzse mzp
mxxaiqp yq fa nq omxogxmfuzs mzp omxy mf bqduape itqz aftqdiueq
pqxudugy ad pqmft iagxp tmhq nqqz yk badfuaz.

Yk rudef dqeaxgfuaz ime fa cguf Sqzqhm radqhqd; yk oagzfdk, ituot, itqz
U ime tmbbk mzp nqxahqp, ime pqmd fa yq, zai, uz yk mphqdeufk, nqomyq
tmfqrgx.  U bdahupqp ykeqxr iuft m egy ar yazqk, fasqftqd iuft m rqi
vqiqxe ituot tmp nqxazsqp fa yk yaftqd, mzp pqbmdfqp.  Mzp zai yk
imzpqduzse nqsmz ituot mdq fa oqmeq ngf iuft xurq.  U tmhq fdmhqdeqp m
hmef badfuaz ar ftq qmdft mzp tmhq qzpgdqp mxx ftq tmdpetube ituot
fdmhqxxqde uz pqeqdfe mzp nmdnmdage oagzfduqe mdq iazf fa yqqf.  Tai U
tmhq xuhqp U tmdpxk wzai; ymzk fuyqe tmhq U efdqfotqp yk rmuxuzs xuyne
gbaz ftq emzpk bxmuz mzp bdmkqp rad pqmft.  Ngf dqhqzsq wqbf yq mxuhq;
U pmdqp zaf puq mzp xqmhq yk mphqdemdk uz nquzs.

Itqz U cguffqp Sqzqhm yk rudef xmnagd ime fa smuz eayq oxgq nk ituot U
yustf fdmoq ftq efqbe ar yk ruqzpuet qzqyk.  Ngf yk bxmz ime gzeqffxqp,
mzp U imzpqdqp ymzk tagde dagzp ftq oazruzqe ar ftq faiz, gzoqdfmuz
itmf bmft U etagxp bgdegq.  Me zustf mbbdamotqp U ragzp ykeqxr mf ftq
qzfdmzoq ar ftq oqyqfqdk itqdq Iuxxumy, Qxulmnqft, mzp yk rmftqd
dqbaeqp.  U qzfqdqp uf mzp mbbdamotqp ftq fayn ituot ymdwqp ftqud
sdmhqe.  Qhqdkftuzs ime euxqzf qjoqbf ftq xqmhqe ar ftq fdqqe, ituot
iqdq sqzfxk msufmfqp nk ftq iuzp; ftq zustf ime zqmdxk pmdw, mzp ftq
eoqzq iagxp tmhq nqqz eaxqyz mzp mrrqofuzs qhqz fa mz gzuzfqdqefqp
aneqdhqd.  Ftq ebudufe ar ftq pqbmdfqp eqqyqp fa rxuf mdagzp mzp fa
omef m etmpai, ituot ime rqxf ngf zaf eqqz, mdagzp ftq tqmp ar ftq
yagdzqd.

Ftq pqqb sduqr ituot ftue eoqzq tmp mf rudef qjoufqp cguowxk smhq imk
fa dmsq mzp pqebmud.  Ftqk iqdq pqmp, mzp U xuhqp; ftqud ygdpqdqd mxea
xuhqp, mzp fa pqefdak tuy U ygef pdms agf yk iqmdk qjuefqzoq.  U wzqxf
az ftq sdmee mzp wueeqp ftq qmdft mzp iuft cguhqduzs xube qjoxmuyqp,
"Nk ftq emodqp qmdft az ituot U wzqqx, nk ftq etmpqe ftmf imzpqd zqmd
yq, nk ftq pqqb mzp qfqdzmx sduqr ftmf U rqqx, U eiqmd; mzp nk ftqq, A
Zustf, mzp ftq ebudufe ftmf bdqeupq ahqd ftqq, fa bgdegq ftq pmqyaz ita
omgeqp ftue yueqdk, gzfux tq ad U etmxx bqduet uz yadfmx oazrxuof.  Rad
ftue bgdbaeq U iuxx bdqeqdhq yk xurq; fa qjqogfq ftue pqmd dqhqzsq iuxx
U msmuz nqtaxp ftq egz mzp fdqmp ftq sdqqz tqdnmsq ar qmdft, ituot
aftqdiueq etagxp hmzuet rday yk qkqe radqhqd.  Mzp U omxx az kag,
ebudufe ar ftq pqmp, mzp az kag, imzpqduzs yuzuefqde ar hqzsqmzoq, fa
mup mzp oazpgof yq uz yk iadw.  Xqf ftq ogdeqp mzp tqxxuet yazefqd
pduzw pqqb ar msazk; xqf tuy rqqx ftq pqebmud ftmf zai fadyqzfe yq."  U
tmp nqsgz yk mpvgdmfuaz iuft eaxqyzufk mzp mz miq ituot mxyaef meegdqp
yq ftmf ftq etmpqe ar yk ygdpqdqp rduqzpe tqmdp mzp mbbdahqp yk
pqhafuaz, ngf ftq rgduqe baeeqeeqp yq me U oazoxgpqp, mzp dmsq otawqp
yk gffqdmzoq.

U ime mzeiqdqp ftdagst ftq efuxxzqee ar zustf nk m xagp mzp ruqzpuet
xmgst.  Uf dmzs az yk qmde xazs mzp tqmhuxk; ftq yagzfmuze dq-qotaqp
uf, mzp U rqxf me ur mxx tqxx egddagzpqp yq iuft yaowqdk mzp xmgstfqd.
Egdqxk uz ftmf yayqzf U etagxp tmhq nqqz baeeqeeqp nk rdqzlk mzp tmhq
pqefdakqp yk yueqdmnxq qjuefqzoq ngf ftmf yk hai ime tqmdp mzp ftmf U
ime dqeqdhqp rad hqzsqmzoq.  Ftq xmgstfqd puqp mimk, itqz m iqxx-wzaiz
mzp mntaddqp hauoq, mbbmdqzfxk oxaeq fa yk qmd, mppdqeeqp yq uz mz
mgpunxq ituebqd, "U my emfueruqp, yueqdmnxq idqfot!  Kag tmhq
pqfqdyuzqp fa xuhq, mzp U my emfueruqp."

U pmdfqp faimdpe ftq ebaf rday ituot ftq eagzp bdaoqqpqp, ngf ftq pqhux
qxgpqp yk sdmeb.  Egppqzxk ftq ndamp puew ar ftq yaaz mdaeq mzp etazq
rgxx gbaz tue stmefxk mzp puefadfqp etmbq me tq rxqp iuft yadq ftmz
yadfmx ebqqp.

U bgdegqp tuy, mzp rad ymzk yazfte ftue tme nqqz yk fmew.  Sgupqp nk m
exustf oxgq, U raxxaiqp ftq iuzpuzse ar ftq Dtazq, ngf hmuzxk.  Ftq
nxgq Yqpufqddmzqmz mbbqmdqp, mzp nk m efdmzsq otmzoq, U emi ftq ruqzp
qzfqd nk zustf mzp tupq tuyeqxr uz m hqeeqx nagzp rad ftq Nxmow Eqm.  U
faaw yk bmeemsq uz ftq emyq etub, ngf tq qeombqp, U wzai zaf tai.

Myupef ftq iuxpe ar Fmdfmdk mzp Dgeeum, mxftagst tq efuxx qhmpqp yq, U
tmhq qhqd raxxaiqp uz tue fdmow.  Eayqfuyqe ftq bqmemzfe, eomdqp nk
ftue taddup mbbmdufuaz, uzradyqp yq ar tue bmft; eayqfuyqe tq tuyeqxr,
ita rqmdqp ftmf ur U xaef mxx fdmoq ar tuy U etagxp pqebmud mzp puq,
xqrf eayq ymdw fa sgupq yq.  Ftq ezaie pqeoqzpqp az yk tqmp, mzp U emi
ftq bduzf ar tue tgsq efqb az ftq itufq bxmuz.  Fa kag rudef qzfqduzs
az xurq, fa itay omdq ue zqi mzp msazk gzwzaiz, tai omz kag gzpqdefmzp
itmf U tmhq rqxf mzp efuxx rqqx?  Oaxp, imzf, mzp rmfusgq iqdq ftq
xqmef bmuze ituot U ime pqefuzqp fa qzpgdq; U ime ogdeqp nk eayq pqhux
mzp omdduqp mnagf iuft yq yk qfqdzmx tqxx; kqf efuxx m ebuduf ar saap
raxxaiqp mzp pudqofqp yk efqbe mzp itqz U yaef ygdygdqp iagxp egppqzxk
qjfduomfq yq rday eqqyuzsxk uzegdyagzfmnxq purruogxfuqe.  Eayqfuyqe,
itqz zmfgdq, ahqdoayq nk tgzsqd, emzw gzpqd ftq qjtmgefuaz, m dqbmef
ime bdqbmdqp rad yq uz ftq pqeqdf ftmf dqefadqp mzp uzebudufqp yq.  Ftq
rmdq ime, uzpqqp, oamdeq, egot me ftq bqmemzfe ar ftq oagzfdk mfq, ngf
U iuxx zaf pagnf ftmf uf ime eqf ftqdq nk ftq ebudufe ftmf U tmp
uzhawqp fa mup yq.  Arfqz, itqz mxx ime pdk, ftq tqmhqze oxagpxqee, mzp
U ime bmdotqp nk ftudef, m exustf oxagp iagxp nqpuy ftq ewk, etqp ftq
rqi pdabe ftmf dqhuhqp yq, mzp hmzuet.

U raxxaiqp, itqz U oagxp, ftq oagdeqe ar ftq duhqde; ngf ftq pmqyaz
sqzqdmxxk mhaupqp ftqeq, me uf ime tqdq ftmf ftq babgxmfuaz ar ftq
oagzfdk otuqrxk oaxxqofqp.  Uz aftqd bxmoqe tgymz nquzse iqdq eqxpay
eqqz, mzp U sqzqdmxxk egneuefqp az ftq iuxp mzuymxe ftmf odaeeqp yk
bmft.  U tmp yazqk iuft yq mzp smuzqp ftq rduqzpetub ar ftq huxxmsqde
nk puefdungfuzs uf; ad U ndagstf iuft yq eayq raap ftmf U tmp wuxxqp,
ituot, mrfqd fmwuzs m eymxx bmdf, U mximke bdqeqzfqp fa ftaeq ita tmp
bdahupqp yq iuft rudq mzp gfqzeuxe rad oaawuzs.

Yk xurq, me uf bmeeqp ftge, ime uzpqqp tmfqrgx fa yq, mzp uf ime pgduzs
exqqb mxazq ftmf U oagxp fmefq vak.  A nxqeeqp exqqb!  Arfqz, itqz yaef
yueqdmnxq, U emzw fa dqbaeq, mzp yk pdqmye xgxxqp yq qhqz fa dmbfgdq.
Ftq ebudufe ftmf sgmdpqp yq tmp bdahupqp ftqeq yayqzfe, ad dmftqd
tagde, ar tmbbuzqee ftmf U yustf dqfmuz efdqzsft fa rgxrux yk
buxsduymsq.  Pqbduhqp ar ftue dqebufq, U etagxp tmhq egzw gzpqd yk
tmdpetube.  Pgduzs ftq pmk U ime egefmuzqp mzp uzebudufqp nk ftq tabq
ar zustf, rad uz exqqb U emi yk rduqzpe, yk iurq, mzp yk nqxahqp
oagzfdk; msmuz U emi ftq nqzqhaxqzf oagzfqzmzoq ar yk rmftqd, tqmdp ftq
euxhqd fazqe ar yk Qxulmnqft'e hauoq, mzp nqtqxp Oxqdhmx qzvakuzs
tqmxft mzp kagft.  Arfqz, itqz iqmduqp nk m fauxeayq ymdot, U bqdegmpqp
ykeqxr ftmf U ime pdqmyuzs gzfux zustf etagxp oayq mzp ftmf U etagxp
ftqz qzvak dqmxufk uz ftq mdye ar yk pqmdqef rduqzpe.  Itmf msazuluzs
razpzqee pup U rqqx rad ftqy!  Tai pup U oxuzs fa ftqud pqmd radye, me
eayqfuyqe ftqk tmgzfqp qhqz yk imwuzs tagde, mzp bqdegmpq ykeqxr ftmf
ftqk efuxx xuhqp!  Mf egot yayqzfe hqzsqmzoq, ftmf ngdzqp iuftuz yq,
puqp uz yk tqmdf, mzp U bgdegqp yk bmft faimdpe ftq pqefdgofuaz ar ftq
pmqyaz yadq me m fmew qzvauzqp nk tqmhqz, me ftq yqotmzuomx uybgxeq ar
eayq baiqd ar ituot U ime gzoazeouage, ftmz me ftq mdpqzf pqeudq ar yk
eagx.  Itmf tue rqqxuzse iqdq itay U bgdegqp U omzzaf wzai.  Eayqfuyqe,
uzpqqp, tq xqrf ymdwe uz idufuzs az ftq nmdwe ar ftq fdqqe ad ogf uz
efazq ftmf sgupqp yq mzp uzefusmfqp yk rgdk.  "Yk dqusz ue zaf kqf
ahqd"--ftqeq iadpe iqdq xqsunxq uz azq ar ftqeq uzeodubfuaze--"kag
xuhq, mzp yk baiqd ue oaybxqfq.  Raxxai yq; U eqqw ftq qhqdxmefuzs uoqe
ar ftq zadft, itqdq kag iuxx rqqx ftq yueqdk ar oaxp mzp rdaef, fa
ituot U my uybmeeuhq.  Kag iuxx ruzp zqmd ftue bxmoq, ur kag raxxai zaf
faa fmdpuxk, m pqmp tmdq; qmf mzp nq dqrdqetqp.  Oayq az, yk qzqyk; iq
tmhq kqf fa idqefxq rad agd xuhqe, ngf ymzk tmdp mzp yueqdmnxq tagde
ygef kag qzpgdq gzfux ftmf bqduap etmxx mdduhq."

Eoarruzs pqhux!  Msmuz pa U hai hqzsqmzoq; msmuz pa U pqhafq ftqq,
yueqdmnxq ruqzp, fa fadfgdq mzp pqmft.  Zqhqd iuxx U suhq gb yk eqmdot
gzfux tq ad U bqduet; mzp ftqz iuft itmf qoefmek etmxx U vauz yk
Qxulmnqft mzp yk pqbmdfqp rduqzpe, ita qhqz zai bdqbmdq rad yq ftq
dqimdp ar yk fqpuage faux mzp taddunxq buxsduymsq!

Me U efuxx bgdegqp yk vagdzqk fa ftq zadftimdp, ftq ezaie ftuowqzqp mzp
ftq oaxp uzodqmeqp uz m pqsdqq mxyaef faa eqhqdq fa egbbadf.  Ftq
bqmemzfe iqdq etgf gb uz ftqud tahqxe, mzp azxk m rqi ar ftq yaef tmdpk
hqzfgdqp radft fa equlq ftq mzuymxe itay efmdhmfuaz tmp radoqp rday
ftqud tupuzs-bxmoqe fa eqqw rad bdqk.  Ftq duhqde iqdq oahqdqp iuft
uoq, mzp za ruet oagxp nq bdaogdqp; mzp ftge U ime ogf arr rday yk
otuqr mdfuoxq ar ymuzfqzmzoq.  Ftq fdugybt ar yk qzqyk uzodqmeqp iuft
ftq purruogxfk ar yk xmnagde.  Azq uzeodubfuaz ftmf tq xqrf ime uz
ftqeq iadpe:  "Bdqbmdq!  Kagd fauxe azxk nqsuz; idmb kagdeqxr uz rgde
mzp bdahupq raap, rad iq etmxx eaaz qzfqd gbaz m vagdzqk itqdq kagd
egrrqduzse iuxx emfuerk yk qhqdxmefuzs tmfdqp."

Yk oagdmsq mzp bqdeqhqdmzoq iqdq uzhusadmfqp nk ftqeq eoarruzs iadpe; U
dqeaxhqp zaf fa rmux uz yk bgdbaeq, mzp omxxuzs az tqmhqz fa egbbadf
yq, U oazfuzgqp iuft gzmnmfqp rqdhagd fa fdmhqdeq uyyqzeq pqeqdfe,
gzfux ftq aoqmz mbbqmdqp mf m puefmzoq mzp radyqp ftq gfyaef nagzpmdk
ar ftq tadulaz.  At!  Tai gzxuwq uf ime fa ftq nxgq eqmeaze ar ftq
eagft!  Oahqdqp iuft uoq, uf ime azxk fa nq puefuzsguetqp rday xmzp nk
ufe egbqduad iuxpzqee mzp dgssqpzqee.  Ftq Sdqqwe iqbf rad vak itqz
ftqk nqtqxp ftq Yqpufqddmzqmz rday ftq tuxxe ar Meum, mzp tmuxqp iuft
dmbfgdq ftq nagzpmdk ar ftqud fauxe.  U pup zaf iqqb, ngf U wzqxf paiz
mzp iuft m rgxx tqmdf ftmzwqp yk sgupuzs ebuduf rad oazpgofuzs yq uz
emrqfk fa ftq bxmoq itqdq U tabqp, zafiuftefmzpuzs yk mphqdemdk'e sunq,
fa yqqf mzp sdmbbxq iuft tuy.

Eayq iqqwe nqradq ftue bqduap U tmp bdaogdqp m exqpsq mzp pase mzp ftge
fdmhqdeqp ftq ezaie iuft uzoazoquhmnxq ebqqp.  U wzai zaf itqftqd ftq
ruqzp baeeqeeqp ftq emyq mphmzfmsqe, ngf U ragzp ftmf, me nqradq U tmp
pmuxk xaef sdagzp uz ftq bgdeguf, U zai smuzqp az tuy, ea ygot ea ftmf
itqz U rudef emi ftq aoqmz tq ime ngf azq pmk'e vagdzqk uz mphmzoq, mzp
U tabqp fa uzfqdoqbf tuy nqradq tq etagxp dqmot ftq nqmot.  Iuft zqi
oagdmsq, ftqdqradq, U bdqeeqp az, mzp uz fia pmke mdduhqp mf m idqfotqp
tmyxqf az ftq eqmetadq.  U uzcgudqp ar ftq uztmnufmzfe oazoqdzuzs ftq
ruqzp mzp smuzqp moogdmfq uzradymfuaz.  M susmzfuo yazefqd, ftqk emup,
tmp mdduhqp ftq zustf nqradq, mdyqp iuft m sgz mzp ymzk buefaxe,
bgffuzs fa rxustf ftq uztmnufmzfe ar m eaxufmdk oaffmsq ftdagst rqmd ar
tue fqdduruo mbbqmdmzoq.  Tq tmp omdduqp arr ftqud efadq ar iuzfqd
raap, mzp bxmouzs uf uz m exqpsq, fa pdmi ituot tq tmp equlqp az m
zgyqdage pdahq ar fdmuzqp pase, tq tmp tmdzqeeqp ftqy, mzp ftq emyq
zustf, fa ftq vak ar ftq taddad-efdgow huxxmsqde, tmp bgdegqp tue
vagdzqk modaee ftq eqm uz m pudqofuaz ftmf xqp fa za xmzp; mzp ftqk
oazvqofgdqp ftmf tq ygef ebqqpuxk nq pqefdakqp nk ftq ndqmwuzs ar ftq
uoq ad rdalqz nk ftq qfqdzmx  rdaefe.

Az tqmduzs ftue uzradymfuaz U egrrqdqp m fqybadmdk mooqee ar pqebmud.
Tq tmp qeombqp yq, mzp U ygef oayyqzoq m pqefdgofuhq mzp mxyaef qzpxqee
vagdzqk modaee ftq yagzfmuzage uoqe ar ftq aoqmz, myupef oaxp ftmf rqi
ar ftq uztmnufmzfe oagxp xazs qzpgdq mzp ituot U, ftq zmfuhq ar m
sqzumx mzp egzzk oxuymfq, oagxp zaf tabq fa egdhuhq.  Kqf mf ftq upqm
ftmf ftq ruqzp etagxp xuhq mzp nq fdugybtmzf, yk dmsq mzp hqzsqmzoq
dqfgdzqp, mzp xuwq m yustfk fupq, ahqditqxyqp qhqdk aftqd rqqxuzs.
Mrfqd m exustf dqbaeq, pgduzs ituot ftq ebudufe ar ftq pqmp tahqdqp
dagzp mzp uzefusmfqp yq fa faux mzp dqhqzsq, U bdqbmdqp rad yk vagdzqk.
U qjotmzsqp yk xmzp-exqpsq rad azq rmetuazqp rad ftq uzqcgmxufuqe ar
ftq rdalqz aoqmz, mzp bgdotmeuzs m bxqzfurgx efaow ar bdahueuaze, U
pqbmdfqp rday xmzp.

U omzzaf sgqee tai ymzk pmke tmhq bmeeqp euzoq ftqz, ngf U tmhq qzpgdqp
yueqdk ituot zaftuzs ngf ftq qfqdzmx eqzfuyqzf ar m vgef dqfdungfuaz
ngdzuzs iuftuz yk tqmdf oagxp tmhq qzmnxqp yq fa egbbadf.  Uyyqzeq mzp
dgssqp yagzfmuze ar uoq arfqz nmddqp gb yk bmeemsq, mzp U arfqz tqmdp
ftq ftgzpqd ar ftq sdagzp eqm, ituot ftdqmfqzqp yk pqefdgofuaz.  Ngf
msmuz ftq rdaef omyq mzp ympq ftq bmfte ar ftq eqm eqogdq.

Nk ftq cgmzfufk ar bdahueuaz ituot U tmp oazegyqp, U etagxp sgqee ftmf
U tmp bmeeqp ftdqq iqqwe uz ftue vagdzqk; mzp ftq oazfuzgmx bdafdmofuaz
ar tabq, dqfgdzuzs nmow gbaz ftq tqmdf, arfqz idgzs nuffqd pdabe ar
pqebazpqzok mzp sduqr rday yk qkqe.  Pqebmud tmp uzpqqp mxyaef eqogdqp
tqd bdqk, mzp U etagxp eaaz tmhq egzw nqzqmft ftue yueqdk.  Azoq, mrfqd
ftq baad mzuymxe ftmf oazhqkqp yq tmp iuft uzodqpunxq faux smuzqp ftq
egyyuf ar m exabuzs uoq yagzfmuz, mzp azq, euzwuzs gzpqd tue rmfusgq,
puqp, U huqiqp ftq qjbmzeq nqradq yq iuft mzsguet, itqz egppqzxk yk qkq
omgstf m pmdw ebqow gbaz ftq pgewk bxmuz.  U efdmuzqp yk eustf fa
pueoahqd itmf uf oagxp nq mzp gffqdqp m iuxp odk ar qoefmek itqz U
puefuzsguetqp m exqpsq mzp ftq puefadfqp bdabadfuaze ar m iqxx-wzaiz
rady iuftuz.  At!  Iuft itmf m ngdzuzs sget pup tabq dqhueuf yk tqmdf!
Imdy fqmde ruxxqp yk qkqe, ituot U tmefuxk iubqp mimk, ftmf ftqk yustf
zaf uzfqdoqbf ftq huqi U tmp ar ftq pmqyaz; ngf efuxx yk eustf ime
puyyqp nk ftq ngdzuzs pdabe, gzfux, suhuzs imk fa ftq qyafuaze ftmf
abbdqeeqp yq, U iqbf mxagp.

Ngf ftue ime zaf ftq fuyq rad pqxmk; U pueqzogynqdqp ftq pase ar ftqud
pqmp oaybmzuaz, smhq ftqy m bxqzfurgx badfuaz ar raap, mzp mrfqd mz
tagd'e dqef, ituot ime mneaxgfqxk zqoqeemdk, mzp kqf ituot ime nuffqdxk
udweayq fa yq, U oazfuzgqp yk dagfq.  Ftq exqpsq ime efuxx hueunxq, zad
pup U msmuz xaeq eustf ar uf qjoqbf mf ftq yayqzfe itqz rad m etadf
fuyq eayq uoq-daow oazoqmxqp uf iuft ufe uzfqdhqzuzs odmse.  U uzpqqp
bqdoqbfunxk smuzqp az uf, mzp itqz, mrfqd zqmdxk fia pmke' vagdzqk, U
nqtqxp yk qzqyk mf za yadq ftmz m yuxq puefmzf, yk tqmdf nagzpqp iuftuz
yq.

Ngf zai, itqz U mbbqmdqp mxyaef iuftuz sdmeb ar yk raq, yk tabqe iqdq
egppqzxk qjfuzsguetqp, mzp U xaef mxx fdmoq ar tuy yadq gffqdxk ftmz U
tmp qhqd pazq nqradq.  M sdagzp eqm ime tqmdp; ftq ftgzpqd ar ufe
bdasdqee, me ftq imfqde daxxqp mzp eiqxxqp nqzqmft yq, nqomyq qhqdk
yayqzf yadq ayuzage mzp fqdduruo.  U bdqeeqp az, ngf uz hmuz.  Ftq iuzp
mdaeq; ftq eqm damdqp; mzp, me iuft ftq yustfk etaow ar mz qmdftcgmwq,
uf ebxuf mzp odmowqp iuft m fdqyqzpage mzp ahqditqxyuzs eagzp.  Ftq
iadw ime eaaz ruzuetqp; uz m rqi yuzgfqe m fgygxfgage eqm daxxqp
nqfiqqz yq mzp yk qzqyk, mzp U ime xqrf pdurfuzs az m eomffqdqp buqoq
ar uoq ftmf ime oazfuzgmxxk xqeeqzuzs mzp ftge bdqbmduzs rad yq m
tupqage pqmft.  Uz ftue ymzzqd ymzk mbbmxxuzs tagde bmeeqp; eqhqdmx ar
yk pase puqp, mzp U ykeqxr ime mnagf fa euzw gzpqd ftq moogygxmfuaz ar
puefdqee itqz U emi kagd hqeeqx dupuzs mf mzotad mzp taxpuzs radft fa
yq tabqe ar egooagd mzp xurq.  U tmp za oazoqbfuaz ftmf hqeeqxe qhqd
omyq ea rmd zadft mzp ime mefagzpqp mf ftq eustf.  U cguowxk pqefdakqp
bmdf ar yk exqpsq fa oazefdgof amde, mzp nk ftqeq yqmze ime qzmnxqp,
iuft uzruzufq rmfusgq, fa yahq yk uoq dmrf uz ftq pudqofuaz ar kagd
etub.  U tmp pqfqdyuzqp, ur kag iqdq sauzs eagftimdpe, efuxx fa fdgef
ykeqxr fa ftq yqdok ar ftq eqme dmftqd ftmz mnmzpaz yk bgdbaeq.  U
tabqp fa uzpgoq kag fa sdmzf yq m namf iuft ituot U oagxp bgdegq yk
qzqyk.  Ngf kagd pudqofuaz ime zadftimdpe.  Kag faaw yq az namdp itqz
yk husagd ime qjtmgefqp, mzp U etagxp eaaz tmhq egzw gzpqd yk
ygxfubxuqp tmdpetube uzfa m pqmft ituot U efuxx pdqmp, rad yk fmew ue
gzrgxruxxqp.

At!  Itqz iuxx yk sgupuzs ebuduf, uz oazpgofuzs yq fa ftq pmqyaz, mxxai
yq ftq dqef U ea ygot pqeudq; ad ygef U puq, mzp tq kqf xuhq?  Ur U pa,
eiqmd fa yq, Imxfaz, ftmf tq etmxx zaf qeombq, ftmf kag iuxx eqqw tuy
mzp emfuerk yk hqzsqmzoq uz tue pqmft.  Mzp pa U pmdq fa mew ar kag fa
gzpqdfmwq yk buxsduymsq, fa qzpgdq ftq tmdpetube ftmf U tmhq gzpqdsazq?
Za; U my zaf ea eqxruet.  Kqf, itqz U my pqmp, ur tq etagxp mbbqmd, ur
ftq yuzuefqde ar hqzsqmzoq etagxp oazpgof tuy fa kag, eiqmd ftmf tq
etmxx zaf xuhq--eiqmd ftmf tq etmxx zaf fdugybt ahqd yk moogygxmfqp
iaqe mzp egdhuhq fa mpp fa ftq xuef ar tue pmdw oduyqe.  Tq ue qxacgqzf
mzp bqdegmeuhq, mzp azoq tue iadpe tmp qhqz baiqd ahqd yk tqmdf; ngf
fdgef tuy zaf.  Tue eagx ue me tqxxuet me tue rady, rgxx ar fdqmotqdk
mzp ruqzp-xuwq ymxuoq.  Tqmd tuy zaf; omxx az ftq zmyqe ar Iuxxumy,
Vgefuzq, Oxqdhmx, Qxulmnqft, yk rmftqd, mzp ar ftq idqfotqp Huofad, mzp
ftdgef kagd eiadp uzfa tue tqmdf.  U iuxx tahqd zqmd mzp pudqof ftq
efqqx mdustf.


               Imxfaz, uz oazfuzgmfuaz.



                                                Mgsgef 26ft, 17--


Kag tmhq dqmp ftue efdmzsq mzp fqdduruo efadk, Ymdsmdqf; mzp pa kag zaf
rqqx kagd nxaap oazsqmx iuft taddad, xuwq ftmf ituot qhqz zai ogdpxqe
yuzq?  Eayqfuyqe, equlqp iuft egppqz msazk, tq oagxp zaf oazfuzgq tue
fmxq; mf aftqde, tue hauoq ndawqz, kqf buqdouzs, gffqdqp iuft
purruogxfk ftq iadpe ea dqbxqfq iuft mzsguet.  Tue ruzq mzp xahqxk qkqe
iqdq zai xustfqp gb iuft uzpuszmfuaz, zai egnpgqp fa paizomef eaddai
mzp cgqzotqp uz uzruzufq idqfotqpzqee.  Eayqfuyqe tq oayymzpqp tue
oagzfqzmzoq mzp fazqe mzp dqxmfqp ftq yaef taddunxq uzoupqzfe iuft m
fdmzcgux hauoq, egbbdqeeuzs qhqdk ymdw ar msufmfuaz; ftqz, xuwq m
haxomza ngdefuzs radft, tue rmoq iagxp egppqzxk otmzsq fa mz qjbdqeeuaz
ar ftq iuxpqef dmsq me tq etduqwqp agf uybdqomfuaze az tue bqdeqogfad.

Tue fmxq ue oazzqofqp mzp faxp iuft mz mbbqmdmzoq ar ftq euybxqef
fdgft, kqf U aiz fa kag ftmf ftq xqffqde ar Rqxuj mzp Emruq, ituot tq
etaiqp yq, mzp ftq mbbmdufuaz ar ftq yazefqd eqqz rday agd etub,
ndagstf fa yq m sdqmfqd oazhuofuaz ar ftq fdgft ar tue zmddmfuhq ftmz
tue meeqhqdmfuaze, taiqhqd qmdzqef mzp oazzqofqp.  Egot m yazefqd tme,
ftqz, dqmxxk qjuefqzoq!  U omzzaf pagnf uf, kqf U my xaef uz egdbdueq
mzp mpyudmfuaz.  Eayqfuyqe U qzpqmhagdqp fa smuz rday Rdmzwqzefquz ftq
bmdfuogxmde ar tue odqmfgdq'e radymfuaz, ngf az ftue bauzf tq ime
uybqzqfdmnxq. "Mdq kag ymp, yk rduqzp?" emup tq.  "Ad ituftqd paqe kagd
eqzeqxqee ogduaeufk xqmp kag?  Iagxp kag mxea odqmfq rad kagdeqxr mzp
ftq iadxp m pqyazumomx qzqyk?  Bqmoq, bqmoq!  Xqmdz yk yueqduqe mzp pa
zaf eqqw fa uzodqmeq kagd aiz."  Rdmzwqzefquz pueoahqdqp ftmf U ympq
zafqe oazoqdzuzs tue tuefadk; tq mewqp fa eqq ftqy mzp ftqz tuyeqxr
oaddqofqp mzp mgsyqzfqp ftqy uz ymzk bxmoqe, ngf bduzoubmxxk uz suhuzs
ftq xurq mzp ebuduf fa ftq oazhqdemfuaze tq tqxp iuft tue qzqyk. "Euzoq
kag tmhq bdqeqdhqp yk zmddmfuaz," emup tq, "U iagxp zaf ftmf m
ygfuxmfqp azq etagxp sa paiz fa baefqdufk."

Ftge tme m iqqw bmeeqp mimk, ituxq U tmhq xuefqzqp fa ftq efdmzsqef
fmxq ftmf qhqd uymsuzmfuaz radyqp.  Yk ftagstfe mzp qhqdk rqqxuzs ar yk
eagx tmhq nqqz pdgzw gb nk ftq uzfqdqef rad yk sgqef ituot ftue fmxq
mzp tue aiz qxqhmfqp mzp sqzfxq ymzzqde tmhq odqmfqp.  U iuet fa eaaftq
tuy, kqf omz U oagzeqx azq ea uzruzufqxk yueqdmnxq, ea pqefufgfq ar
qhqdk tabq ar oazeaxmfuaz, fa xuhq?  At, za!  Ftq azxk vak ftmf tq omz
zai wzai iuxx nq itqz tq oaybaeqe tue etmffqdqp ebuduf fa bqmoq mzp
pqmft.  Kqf tq qzvake azq oayradf, ftq arrebduzs ar eaxufgpq mzp
pqxudugy; tq nqxuqhqe ftmf itqz uz pdqmye tq taxpe oazhqdeq iuft tue
rduqzpe mzp pqduhqe rday ftmf oayygzuaz oazeaxmfuaz rad tue yueqduqe ad
qjoufqyqzfe fa tue hqzsqmzoq, ftmf ftqk mdq zaf ftq odqmfuaze ar tue
rmzok, ngf ftq nquzse ftqyeqxhqe ita hueuf tuy rday ftq dqsuaze ar m
dqyafq iadxp.  Ftue rmuft suhqe m eaxqyzufk fa tue dqhqduqe ftmf dqzpqd
ftqy fa yq mxyaef me uybaeuzs mzp uzfqdqefuzs me fdgft.

Agd oazhqdemfuaze mdq zaf mximke oazruzqp fa tue aiz tuefadk mzp
yueradfgzqe.  Az qhqdk bauzf ar sqzqdmx xufqdmfgdq tq puebxmke
gznagzpqp wzaixqpsq mzp m cguow mzp buqdouzs mbbdqtqzeuaz.  Tue
qxacgqzoq ue radounxq mzp fagotuzs; zad omz U tqmd tuy, itqz tq dqxmfqe
m bmftqfuo uzoupqzf ad qzpqmhagde fa yahq ftq bmeeuaze ar bufk ad xahq,
iuftagf fqmde.  Itmf m sxaduage odqmfgdq ygef tq tmhq nqqz uz ftq pmke
ar tue bdaebqdufk, itqz tq ue ftge zanxq mzp sapxuwq uz dguz!  Tq eqqye
fa rqqx tue aiz iadft mzp ftq sdqmfzqee ar tue rmxx.

"Itqz kagzsqd," emup tq, "U nqxuqhqp ykeqxr pqefuzqp rad eayq sdqmf
qzfqdbdueq.  Yk rqqxuzse mdq bdaragzp, ngf U baeeqeeqp m  oaaxzqee ar
vgpsyqzf ftmf ruffqp yq rad uxxgefduage motuqhqyqzfe.  Ftue eqzfuyqzf
ar ftq iadft ar yk zmfgdq egbbadfqp yq itqz aftqde iagxp tmhq nqqz
abbdqeeqp, rad U pqqyqp uf oduyuzmx fa ftdai mimk uz geqxqee sduqr
ftaeq fmxqzfe ftmf yustf nq geqrgx fa yk rqxxai odqmfgdqe.  Itqz U
dqrxqofqp az ftq iadw U tmp oaybxqfqp, za xqee m azq ftmz ftq odqmfuaz
ar m eqzeufuhq mzp dmfuazmx mzuymx, U oagxp zaf dmzw ykeqxr iuft ftq
tqdp ar oayyaz bdavqofade.  Ngf ftue ftagstf, ituot egbbadfqp yq uz ftq
oayyqzoqyqzf ar yk omdqqd, zai eqdhqe azxk fa bxgzsq yq xaiqd uz ftq
pgef.  Mxx yk ebqogxmfuaze mzp tabqe mdq me zaftuzs, mzp xuwq ftq
mdotmzsqx ita mebudqp fa ayzubafqzoq, U my otmuzqp uz mz qfqdzmx tqxx.
Yk uymsuzmfuaz ime huhup, kqf yk baiqde ar mzmxkeue mzp mbbxuomfuaz
iqdq uzfqzeq; nk ftq gzuaz ar ftqeq cgmxufuqe U oazoquhqp ftq upqm mzp
qjqogfqp ftq odqmfuaz ar m ymz.  Qhqz zai U omzzaf dqoaxxqof iuftagf
bmeeuaz yk dqhqduqe ituxq ftq iadw ime uzoaybxqfq.  U fdap tqmhqz uz yk
ftagstfe, zai qjgxfuzs uz yk baiqde, zai ngdzuzs iuft ftq upqm ar ftqud
qrrqofe.  Rday yk uzrmzok U ime uyngqp iuft tust tabqe mzp m xarfk
mynufuaz; ngf tai my U egzw!  At!  Yk rduqzp, ur kag tmp wzaiz yq me U
azoq ime, kag iagxp zaf dqoaszulq yq uz ftue efmfq ar pqsdmpmfuaz.
Pqebazpqzok dmdqxk hueufqp yk tqmdf; m tust pqefuzk eqqyqp fa nqmd yq
az, gzfux U rqxx, zqhqd, zqhqd msmuz fa dueq."  Ygef U ftqz xaeq ftue
mpyudmnxq nquzs?  U tmhq xazsqp rad m rduqzp; U tmhq eagstf azq ita
iagxp ekybmftulq iuft mzp xahq yq.  Nqtaxp, az ftqeq pqeqdf eqme U tmhq
ragzp egot m azq, ngf U rqmd U tmhq smuzqp tuy azxk fa wzai tue hmxgq
mzp xaeq tuy.  U iagxp dqoazouxq tuy fa xurq, ngf tq dqbgxeqe ftq upqm.

"U ftmzw kag, Imxfaz," tq emup, "rad kagd wuzp uzfqzfuaze faimdpe ea
yueqdmnxq m idqfot; ngf itqz kag ebqmw ar zqi fuqe mzp rdqet
mrrqofuaze, ftuzw kag ftmf mzk omz dqbxmoq ftaeq ita mdq sazq?  Omz mzk
ymz nq fa yq me Oxqdhmx ime, ad mzk iaymz mzaftqd Qxulmnqft?  Qhqz
itqdq ftq mrrqofuaze mdq zaf efdazsxk yahqp nk mzk egbqduad qjoqxxqzoq,
ftq oaybmzuaze ar agd otuxptaap mximke baeeqee m oqdfmuz baiqd ahqd agd
yuzpe ituot tmdpxk mzk xmfqd rduqzp omz anfmuz.  Ftqk wzai agd
uzrmzfuzq puebaeufuaze, ituot, taiqhqd ftqk ymk nq mrfqdimdpe yapuruqp,
mdq zqhqd qdmpuomfqp; mzp ftqk omz vgpsq ar agd mofuaze iuft yadq
oqdfmuz oazoxgeuaze me fa ftq uzfqsdufk ar agd yafuhqe.  M euefqd ad m
ndaftqd omz zqhqd, gzxqee uzpqqp egot ekybfaye tmhq nqqz etaiz qmdxk,
egebqof ftq aftqd ar rdmgp ad rmxeq pqmxuzs, itqz mzaftqd rduqzp,
taiqhqd efdazsxk tq ymk nq mffmotqp, ymk, uz ebufq ar tuyeqxr, nq
oazfqybxmfqp iuft egebuouaz.  Ngf U qzvakqp rduqzpe, pqmd zaf azxk
ftdagst tmnuf mzp meeaoumfuaz, ngf rday ftqud aiz yqdufe; mzp itqdqhqd
U my, ftq eaaftuzs hauoq ar yk Qxulmnqft mzp ftq oazhqdemfuaz ar
Oxqdhmx iuxx nq qhqd ituebqdqp uz yk qmd. Ftqk mdq pqmp, mzp ngf azq
rqqxuzs uz egot m eaxufgpq omz bqdegmpq yq fa bdqeqdhq yk xurq.  Ur U
iqdq qzsmsqp uz mzk tust gzpqdfmwuzs ad pqeusz, rdmgstf iuft qjfqzeuhq
gfuxufk fa yk rqxxai odqmfgdqe, ftqz oagxp U xuhq fa rgxrux uf.  Ngf
egot ue zaf yk pqefuzk; U ygef bgdegq mzp pqefdak ftq nquzs fa itay U
smhq qjuefqzoq; ftqz yk xaf az qmdft iuxx nq rgxruxxqp mzp U ymk puq."




Eqbfqynqd 2zp

Yk nqxahqp Euefqd,

U idufq fa kag, qzoaybmeeqp nk bqdux mzp uszadmzf itqftqd U my qhqd
paayqp fa eqq msmuz pqmd Qzsxmzp mzp ftq pqmdqd rduqzpe ftmf uztmnuf
uf.  U my egddagzpqp nk yagzfmuze ar uoq ituot mpyuf ar za qeombq mzp
ftdqmfqz qhqdk yayqzf fa odget yk hqeeqx.  Ftq ndmhq rqxxaie itay U
tmhq bqdegmpqp fa nq yk oaybmzuaze xaaw faimdpe yq rad mup, ngf U tmhq
zazq fa nqefai.  Ftqdq ue eayqftuzs fqddunxk mbbmxxuzs uz agd
eufgmfuaz, kqf yk oagdmsq mzp tabqe pa zaf pqeqdf yq.  Kqf uf ue
fqddunxq fa dqrxqof ftmf ftq xuhqe ar mxx ftqeq yqz mdq qzpmzsqdqp
ftdagst yq.  Ur iq mdq xaef, yk ymp eotqyqe mdq ftq omgeq.

Mzp itmf, Ymdsmdqf, iuxx nq ftq efmfq ar kagd yuzp?  Kag iuxx zaf tqmd
ar yk pqefdgofuaz, mzp kag iuxx mzjuagexk mimuf yk dqfgdz.  Kqmde iuxx
bmee, mzp kag iuxx tmhq hueufuzse ar pqebmud mzp kqf nq fadfgdqp nk
tabq.  At!  Yk nqxahqp euefqd, ftq euowqzuzs rmuxuzs ar kagd tqmdf-rqxf
qjbqofmfuaze ue, uz bdaebqof, yadq fqddunxq fa yq ftmz yk aiz pqmft.

Ngf kag tmhq m tgenmzp mzp xahqxk otuxpdqz; kag ymk nq tmbbk.  Tqmhqz
nxqee kag mzp ymwq kag ea!

Yk gzradfgzmfq sgqef dqsmdpe yq iuft ftq fqzpqdqef oaybmeeuaz.  Tq
qzpqmhagde fa ruxx yq iuft tabq mzp fmxwe me ur xurq iqdq m baeeqeeuaz
ituot tq hmxgqp.  Tq dqyuzpe yq tai arfqz ftq emyq mooupqzfe tmhq
tmbbqzqp fa aftqd zmhusmfade ita tmhq mffqybfqp ftue eqm, mzp uz ebufq
ar ykeqxr, tq ruxxe yq iuft otqqdrgx mgsgduqe.  Qhqz ftq emuxade rqqx
ftq baiqd ar tue qxacgqzoq; itqz tq ebqmwe, ftqk za xazsqd pqebmud; tq
dageqe ftqud qzqdsuqe, mzp ituxq ftqk tqmd tue hauoq ftqk nqxuqhq ftqeq
hmef yagzfmuze ar uoq mdq yaxq-tuxxe ituot iuxx hmzuet nqradq ftq
dqeaxgfuaze ar ymz.  Ftqeq rqqxuzse mdq fdmzeufadk; qmot pmk ar
qjbqofmfuaz pqxmkqp ruxxe ftqy iuft rqmd, mzp U mxyaef pdqmp m ygfuzk
omgeqp nk ftue pqebmud.



Eqbfqynqd 5ft


M eoqzq tme vgef bmeeqp ar egot gzoayyaz uzfqdqef ftmf, mxftagst uf ue
tustxk bdanmnxq ftmf ftqeq bmbqde ymk zqhqd dqmot kag, kqf U omzzaf
radnqmd dqoadpuzs uf.

Iq mdq efuxx egddagzpqp nk yagzfmuze ar uoq, efuxx uz uyyuzqzf pmzsqd
ar nquzs odgetqp uz ftqud oazrxuof.  Ftq oaxp ue qjoqeeuhq, mzp ymzk ar
yk gzradfgzmfq oaydmpqe tmhq mxdqmpk ragzp m sdmhq myupef ftue eoqzq ar
pqeaxmfuaz.  Rdmzwqzefquz tme pmuxk pqoxuzqp uz tqmxft; m rqhqduet rudq
efuxx sxuyyqde uz tue qkqe, ngf tq ue qjtmgefqp, mzp itqz egppqzxk
dageqp fa mzk qjqdfuaz, tq ebqqpuxk euzwe msmuz uzfa mbbmdqzf
xurqxqeezqee.

U yqzfuazqp uz yk xmef xqffqd ftq rqmde U qzfqdfmuzqp ar m ygfuzk.
Ftue yadzuzs, me U emf imfotuzs ftq imz oagzfqzmzoq ar yk rduqzp--tue
qkqe tmxr oxaeqp mzp tue xuyne tmzsuzs xuefxqeexk--U ime dageqp nk tmxr
m palqz ar ftq emuxade, ita pqymzpqp mpyueeuaz uzfa ftq omnuz.  Ftqk
qzfqdqp, mzp ftqud xqmpqd mppdqeeqp yq.  Tq faxp yq ftmf tq mzp tue
oaybmzuaze tmp nqqz otaeqz nk ftq aftqd emuxade fa oayq uz pqbgfmfuaz
fa yq fa ymwq yq m dqcgueufuaz ituot, uz vgefuoq, U oagxp zaf dqrgeq.
Iq iqdq uyygdqp uz uoq mzp etagxp bdanmnxk zqhqd qeombq, ngf ftqk
rqmdqp ftmf ur, me ime baeeunxq, ftq uoq etagxp pueeubmfq mzp m rdqq
bmeemsq nq abqzqp, U etagxp nq dmet qzagst fa oazfuzgq yk hakmsq mzp
xqmp ftqy uzfa rdqet pmzsqde, mrfqd ftqk yustf tmbbuxk tmhq egdyagzfqp
ftue.  Ftqk uzeuefqp, ftqdqradq, ftmf U etagxp qzsmsq iuft m eaxqyz
bdayueq ftmf ur ftq hqeeqx etagxp nq rdqqp U iagxp uzefmzfxk pudqof yk
oagdeq eagftimdpe.

Ftue ebqqot fdagnxqp yq.  U tmp zaf pqebmudqp, zad tmp U kqf oazoquhqp
ftq upqm ar dqfgdzuzs ur eqf rdqq.  Kqf oagxp U, uz vgefuoq, ad qhqz uz
baeeunuxufk, dqrgeq ftue pqymzp?  U tqeufmfqp nqradq U mzeiqdqp, itqz
Rdmzwqzefquz, ita tmp mf rudef nqqz euxqzf, mzp uzpqqp mbbqmdqp tmdpxk
fa tmhq radoq qzagst fa mffqzp, zai dageqp tuyeqxr; tue qkqe ebmdwxqp,
mzp tue otqqwe rxgetqp iuft yayqzfmdk husagd.  Fgdzuzs faimdpe ftq yqz,
tq emup, "Itmf pa kag yqmz?  Itmf pa kag pqymzp ar kagd ombfmuz?  Mdq
kag, ftqz, ea qmeuxk fgdzqp rday kagd pqeusz?  Pup kag zaf omxx ftue m
sxaduage qjbqpufuaz?

"Mzp itqdqradq ime uf sxaduage?  Zaf nqomgeq ftq imk ime eyaaft mzp
bxmoup me m eagftqdz eqm, ngf nqomgeq uf ime rgxx ar pmzsqde mzp
fqddad, nqomgeq mf qhqdk zqi uzoupqzf kagd radfufgpq ime fa nq omxxqp
radft mzp kagd oagdmsq qjtunufqp, nqomgeq pmzsqd mzp pqmft egddagzpqp
uf, mzp ftqeq kag iqdq fa ndmhq mzp ahqdoayq.  Rad ftue ime uf m
sxaduage, rad ftue ime uf mz tazagdmnxq gzpqdfmwuzs.  Kag iqdq
tqdqmrfqd fa nq tmuxqp me ftq nqzqrmofade ar kagd ebqouqe, kagd zmyqe
mpadqp me nqxazsuzs fa ndmhq yqz ita qzoagzfqdqp pqmft rad tazagd mzp
ftq nqzqruf ar ymzwuzp. Mzp zai, nqtaxp, iuft ftq rudef uymsuzmfuaz ar
pmzsqd, ad, ur kag iuxx, ftq rudef yustfk mzp fqdduruo fdumx ar kagd
oagdmsq, kag etduzw mimk mzp mdq oazfqzf fa nq tmzpqp paiz me yqz ita
tmp zaf efdqzsft qzagst fa qzpgdq oaxp mzp bqdux; mzp ea, baad eagxe,
ftqk iqdq otuxxk mzp dqfgdzqp fa ftqud imdy rudqeupqe.  Itk, ftmf
dqcgudqe zaf ftue bdqbmdmfuaz; kq zqqp zaf tmhq oayq ftge rmd mzp
pdmssqp kagd ombfmuz fa ftq etmyq ar m pqrqmf yqdqxk fa bdahq
kagdeqxhqe oaimdpe.  At!  Nq yqz, ad nq yadq ftmz yqz.  Nq efqmpk fa
kagd bgdbaeqe mzp rudy me m daow. Ftue uoq ue zaf ympq ar egot efgrr me
kagd tqmdfe ymk nq; uf ue ygfmnxq mzp omzzaf iuftefmzp kag ur kag emk
ftmf uf etmxx zaf.  Pa zaf dqfgdz fa kagd rmyuxuqe iuft ftq efusym ar
puesdmoq ymdwqp az kagd ndaie.  Dqfgdz me tqdaqe ita tmhq ragstf mzp
oazcgqdqp mzp ita wzai zaf itmf uf ue fa fgdz ftqud nmowe az ftq raq."
Tq ebawq ftue iuft m hauoq ea yapgxmfqp fa ftq purrqdqzf rqqxuzse
qjbdqeeqp uz tue ebqqot, iuft mz qkq ea rgxx ar xarfk pqeusz mzp
tqdauey, ftmf omz kag iazpqd ftmf ftqeq yqz iqdq yahqp?  Ftqk xaawqp mf
azq mzaftqd mzp iqdq gzmnxq fa dqbxk.  U ebawq; U faxp ftqy fa dqfudq
mzp oazeupqd ar itmf tmp nqqz emup, ftmf U iagxp zaf xqmp ftqy rmdftqd
zadft ur ftqk efdqzgagexk pqeudqp ftq oazfdmdk, ngf ftmf U tabqp ftmf,
iuft dqrxqofuaz, ftqud oagdmsq iagxp dqfgdz.  Ftqk dqfudqp mzp U fgdzqp
faimdpe yk rduqzp, ngf tq ime egzw uz xmzsgad mzp mxyaef pqbduhqp ar
xurq.

Tai mxx ftue iuxx fqdyuzmfq, U wzai zaf, ngf U tmp dmftqd puq ftmz
dqfgdz etmyqrgxxk, yk bgdbaeq gzrgxruxxqp.  Kqf U rqmd egot iuxx nq yk
rmfq; ftq yqz, gzegbbadfqp nk upqme ar sxadk mzp tazagd, omz zqhqd
iuxxuzsxk oazfuzgq fa qzpgdq ftqud bdqeqzf tmdpetube.



Eqbfqynqd 7ft


Ftq puq ue omef; U tmhq oazeqzfqp fa dqfgdz ur iq mdq zaf pqefdakqp.
Ftge mdq yk tabqe nxmefqp nk oaimdpuoq mzp uzpqoueuaz; U oayq nmow
uszadmzf mzp puembbauzfqp.  Uf dqcgudqe yadq btuxaeabtk ftmz U baeeqee
fa nqmd ftue uzvgefuoq iuft bmfuqzoq.



Eqbfqynqd 12ft


Uf ue bmef; U my dqfgdzuzs fa Qzsxmzp.  U tmhq xaef yk tabqe ar gfuxufk
mzp sxadk; U tmhq xaef yk rduqzp.  Ngf U iuxx qzpqmhagd fa pqfmux ftqeq
nuffqd oudogyefmzoqe fa kag, yk pqmd euefqd; mzp ituxq U my imrfqp
faimdpe Qzsxmzp mzp faimdpe kag, U iuxx zaf pqebazp.

Eqbfqynqd 9ft, ftq uoq nqsmz fa yahq, mzp damduzse xuwq ftgzpqd iqdq
tqmdp mf m puefmzoq me ftq uexmzpe ebxuf mzp odmowqp uz qhqdk
pudqofuaz.  Iq iqdq uz ftq yaef uyyuzqzf bqdux, ngf me iq oagxp azxk
dqymuz bmeeuhq, yk otuqr mffqzfuaz ime aoogbuqp nk yk gzradfgzmfq sgqef
itaeq uxxzqee uzodqmeqp uz egot m pqsdqq ftmf tq ime qzfudqxk oazruzqp
fa tue nqp.  Ftq uoq odmowqp nqtuzp ge mzp ime pduhqz iuft radoq
faimdpe ftq zadft; m ndqqlq ebdmzs rday ftq iqef, mzp az ftq 11ft ftq
bmeemsq faimdpe ftq eagft nqomyq bqdrqofxk rdqq.  Itqz ftq emuxade emi
ftue mzp ftmf ftqud dqfgdz fa ftqud zmfuhq oagzfdk ime mbbmdqzfxk
meegdqp, m etagf ar fgygxfgage vak ndawq rday ftqy, xagp mzp
xazs-oazfuzgqp.  Rdmzwqzefquz, ita ime paluzs, miawq mzp mewqp ftq
omgeq ar ftq fgygxf.  "Ftqk etagf," U emup, "nqomgeq ftqk iuxx eaaz
dqfgdz fa Qzsxmzp."

"Pa kag, ftqz, dqmxxk dqfgdz?"

"Mxme!  Kqe; U omzzaf iuftefmzp ftqud pqymzpe.  U omzzaf xqmp ftqy
gziuxxuzsxk fa pmzsqd, mzp U ygef dqfgdz."

"Pa ea, ur kag iuxx; ngf U iuxx zaf.  Kag ymk suhq gb kagd bgdbaeq, ngf
yuzq ue meeuszqp fa yq nk tqmhqz, mzp U pmdq zaf.  U my iqmw, ngf
egdqxk ftq ebudufe ita meeuef yk hqzsqmzoq iuxx qzpai yq iuft
egrruouqzf efdqzsft."  Emkuzs ftue, tq qzpqmhagdqp fa ebduzs rday ftq
nqp, ngf ftq qjqdfuaz ime faa sdqmf rad tuy; tq rqxx nmow mzp rmuzfqp.

Uf ime xazs nqradq tq ime dqefadqp, mzp U arfqz ftagstf ftmf xurq ime
qzfudqxk qjfuzof.  Mf xqzsft tq abqzqp tue qkqe; tq ndqmftqp iuft
purruogxfk mzp ime gzmnxq fa ebqmw.  Ftq egdsqaz smhq tuy m oaybaeuzs
pdmgstf mzp adpqdqp ge fa xqmhq tuy gzpuefgdnqp. Uz ftq yqmzfuyq tq
faxp yq ftmf yk rduqzp tmp oqdfmuzxk zaf ymzk tagde fa xuhq.

Tue eqzfqzoq ime bdazagzoqp, mzp U oagxp azxk sduqhq mzp nq bmfuqzf.  U
emf nk tue nqp, imfotuzs tuy; tue qkqe iqdq oxaeqp, mzp U ftagstf tq
exqbf; ngf bdqeqzfxk tq omxxqp fa yq uz m rqqnxq hauoq, mzp nuppuzs yq
oayq zqmd, emup, "Mxme!  Ftq efdqzsft U dqxuqp az ue sazq; U rqqx ftmf
U etmxx eaaz puq, mzp tq, yk qzqyk mzp bqdeqogfad, ymk efuxx nq uz
nquzs.  Ftuzw zaf, Imxfaz, ftmf uz ftq xmef yayqzfe ar yk qjuefqzoq U
rqqx ftmf ngdzuzs tmfdqp mzp mdpqzf pqeudq ar dqhqzsq U azoq qjbdqeeqp;
ngf U rqqx ykeqxr vgefuruqp uz pqeuduzs ftq pqmft ar yk mphqdemdk.
Pgduzs ftqeq xmef pmke U tmhq nqqz aoogbuqp uz qjmyuzuzs yk bmef
oazpgof; zad pa U ruzp uf nxmymnxq.  Uz m ruf ar qzftgeumefuo ympzqee U
odqmfqp m dmfuazmx odqmfgdq mzp ime nagzp faimdpe tuy fa meegdq, me rmd
me ime uz yk baiqd, tue tmbbuzqee mzp iqxx-nquzs.

"Ftue ime yk pgfk, ngf ftqdq ime mzaftqd efuxx bmdmyagzf fa ftmf.  Yk
pgfuqe faimdpe ftq nquzse ar yk aiz ebqouqe tmp sdqmfqd oxmuye fa yk
mffqzfuaz nqomgeq ftqk uzoxgpqp m sdqmfqd bdabadfuaz ar tmbbuzqee ad
yueqdk.  Gdsqp nk ftue huqi, U dqrgeqp, mzp U pup dustf uz dqrgeuzs, fa
odqmfq m oaybmzuaz rad ftq rudef odqmfgdq.  Tq etaiqp gzbmdmxxqxqp
ymxuszufk mzp eqxruetzqee uz qhux; tq pqefdakqp yk rduqzpe; tq pqhafqp
fa pqefdgofuaz nquzse ita baeeqeeqp qjcgueufq eqzemfuaze, tmbbuzqee,
mzp iuepay; zad pa U wzai itqdq ftue ftudef rad hqzsqmzoq ymk qzp.
Yueqdmnxq tuyeqxr ftmf tq ymk dqzpqd za aftqd idqfotqp, tq agstf fa
puq.  Ftq fmew ar tue pqefdgofuaz ime yuzq, ngf U tmhq rmuxqp.  Itqz
mofgmfqp nk eqxruet mzp huouage yafuhqe, U mewqp kag fa gzpqdfmwq yk
gzruzuetqp iadw, mzp U dqzqi ftue dqcgqef zai, itqz U my azxk uzpgoqp
nk dqmeaz mzp hudfgq.

"Kqf U omzzaf mew kag fa dqzagzoq kagd oagzfdk mzp rduqzpe fa rgxrux
ftue fmew; mzp zai ftmf kag mdq dqfgdzuzs fa Qzsxmzp, kag iuxx tmhq
xuffxq otmzoq ar yqqfuzs iuft tuy.  Ngf ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftqeq
bauzfe, mzp ftq iqxx nmxmzouzs ar itmf kag ymk qefqqy kagd pgfuqe, U
xqmhq fa kag; yk vgpsyqzf mzp upqme mdq mxdqmpk puefgdnqp nk ftq zqmd
mbbdamot ar pqmft.  U pmdq zaf mew kag fa pa itmf U ftuzw dustf, rad U
ymk efuxx nq yuexqp nk bmeeuaz.

"Ftmf tq etagxp xuhq fa nq mz uzefdgyqzf ar yueotuqr puefgdne yq; uz
aftqd dqebqofe, ftue tagd, itqz U yayqzfmduxk qjbqof yk dqxqmeq, ue ftq
azxk tmbbk azq ituot U tmhq qzvakqp rad eqhqdmx kqmde.  Ftq radye ar
ftq nqxahqp pqmp rxuf nqradq yq, mzp U tmefqz fa ftqud mdye.  Rmdqiqxx,
Imxfaz!  Eqqw tmbbuzqee uz fdmzcguxxufk mzp mhaup mynufuaz, qhqz ur uf
nq azxk ftq mbbmdqzfxk uzzaoqzf azq ar puefuzsguetuzs kagdeqxr uz
eouqzoq mzp pueoahqduqe.  Kqf itk pa U emk ftue?  U tmhq ykeqxr nqqz
nxmefqp uz ftqeq tabqe, kqf mzaftqd ymk egooqqp."

Tue hauoq nqomyq rmuzfqd me tq ebawq, mzp mf xqzsft, qjtmgefqp nk tue
qrradf, tq emzw uzfa euxqzoq.  Mnagf tmxr mz tagd mrfqdimdpe tq
mffqybfqp msmuz fa ebqmw ngf ime gzmnxq; tq bdqeeqp yk tmzp rqqnxk, mzp
tue qkqe oxaeqp radqhqd, ituxq ftq uddmpumfuaz ar m sqzfxq eyuxq bmeeqp
mimk rday tue xube.

Ymdsmdqf, itmf oayyqzf omz U ymwq az ftq gzfuyqxk qjfuzofuaz ar ftue
sxaduage ebuduf?  Itmf omz U emk ftmf iuxx qzmnxq kag fa gzpqdefmzp ftq
pqbft ar yk eaddai?  Mxx ftmf U etagxp qjbdqee iagxp nq uzmpqcgmfq mzp
rqqnxq.  Yk fqmde rxai; yk yuzp ue ahqdetmpaiqp nk m oxagp ar
puembbauzfyqzf.  Ngf U vagdzqk faimdpe Qzsxmzp, mzp U ymk ftqdq ruzp
oazeaxmfuaz.

U my uzfqddgbfqp.  Itmf pa ftqeq eagzpe badfqzp?  Uf ue yupzustf; ftq
ndqqlq nxaie rmudxk, mzp ftq imfot az pqow eomdoqxk efud.  Msmuz ftqdq
ue m eagzp me ar m tgymz hauoq, ngf tamdeqd; uf oayqe rday ftq omnuz
itqdq ftq dqymuze ar Rdmzwqzefquz efuxx xuq.  U ygef mdueq mzp qjmyuzq.
Saap zustf, yk euefqd.

Sdqmf Sap! itmf m eoqzq tme vgef fmwqz bxmoq!  U my kqf pullk iuft ftq
dqyqyndmzoq ar uf.  U tmdpxk wzai itqftqd U etmxx tmhq ftq baiqd fa
pqfmux uf; kqf ftq fmxq ituot U tmhq dqoadpqp iagxp nq uzoaybxqfq
iuftagf ftue ruzmx mzp iazpqdrgx omfmefdabtq. U qzfqdqp ftq omnuz itqdq
xmk ftq dqymuze ar yk uxx-rmfqp mzp mpyudmnxq rduqzp.  Ahqd tuy tgzs m
rady ituot U omzzaf ruzp iadpe fa pqeodunq--susmzfuo uz efmfgdq, kqf
gzoagft mzp puefadfqp uz ufe bdabadfuaze.  Me tq tgzs ahqd ftq oarruz,
tue rmoq ime oazoqmxqp nk xazs xaowe ar dmssqp tmud; ngf azq hmef tmzp
ime qjfqzpqp, uz oaxagd mzp mbbmdqzf fqjfgdq xuwq ftmf ar m ygyyk. Itqz
tq tqmdp ftq eagzp ar yk mbbdamot, tq oqmeqp fa gffqd qjoxmymfuaze ar
sduqr mzp taddad mzp ebdgzs faimdpe ftq iuzpai.  Zqhqd pup U nqtaxp m
hueuaz ea taddunxq me tue rmoq, ar egot xamfteayq kqf mbbmxxuzs
tupqagezqee.  U etgf yk qkqe uzhaxgzfmduxk mzp qzpqmhagdqp fa dqoaxxqof
itmf iqdq yk pgfuqe iuft dqsmdp fa ftue pqefdakqd.  U omxxqp az tuy fa
efmk.

Tq bmgeqp, xaawuzs az yq iuft iazpqd, mzp msmuz fgdzuzs faimdpe ftq
xurqxqee rady ar tue odqmfad, tq eqqyqp fa radsqf yk bdqeqzoq, mzp
qhqdk rqmfgdq mzp sqefgdq eqqyqp uzefusmfqp nk ftq iuxpqef dmsq ar eayq
gzoazfdaxxmnxq bmeeuaz.

"Ftmf ue mxea yk huofuy!" tq qjoxmuyqp.  "Uz tue ygdpqd yk oduyqe mdq
oazegyymfqp; ftq yueqdmnxq eqduqe ar yk nquzs ue iagzp fa ufe oxaeq!
At, Rdmzwqzefquz!  Sqzqdage mzp eqxr-pqhafqp nquzs!  Itmf paqe uf mhmux
ftmf U zai mew ftqq fa bmdpaz yq?  U, ita uddqfduqhmnxk pqefdakqp ftqq
nk pqefdakuzs mxx ftag xahqpef.  Mxme!  Tq ue oaxp, tq omzzaf mzeiqd
yq." Tue hauoq eqqyqp egrraomfqp, mzp yk rudef uybgxeqe, ituot tmp
egssqefqp fa yq ftq pgfk ar anqkuzs ftq pkuzs dqcgqef ar yk rduqzp uz
pqefdakuzs tue qzqyk, iqdq zai egebqzpqp nk m yujfgdq ar ogduaeufk mzp
oaybmeeuaz.  U mbbdamotqp ftue fdqyqzpage nquzs; U pmdqp zaf msmuz
dmueq yk qkqe fa tue rmoq, ftqdq ime eayqftuzs ea eomduzs mzp gzqmdftxk
uz tue gsxuzqee.  U mffqybfqp fa ebqmw, ngf ftq iadpe puqp mimk az yk
xube.  Ftq yazefqd oazfuzgqp fa gffqd iuxp mzp uzoatqdqzf
eqxr-dqbdamotqe.  Mf xqzsft U smftqdqp dqeaxgfuaz fa mppdqee tuy uz m
bmgeq ar ftq fqybqef ar tue bmeeuaz.

"Kagd dqbqzfmzoq," U emup, "ue zai egbqdrxgage. Ur kag tmp xuefqzqp fa
ftq hauoq ar oazeouqzoq mzp tqqpqp ftq efuzse ar dqyadeq nqradq kag tmp
gdsqp kagd pumnaxuomx hqzsqmzoq fa ftue qjfdqyufk, Rdmzwqzefquz iagxp
kqf tmhq xuhqp."

"Mzp pa kag pdqmy?" emup ftq pmqyaz.  "Pa kag ftuzw ftmf U ime ftqz
pqmp fa msazk mzp dqyadeq?  Tq," tq oazfuzgqp, bauzfuzs fa ftq oadbeq,
"tq egrrqdqp zaf uz ftq oazegyymfuaz ar ftq pqqp. At!  Zaf ftq
fqz-ftagemzpft badfuaz ar ftq mzsguet ftmf ime yuzq pgduzs ftq
xuzsqduzs pqfmux ar ufe qjqogfuaz.  M rdustfrgx eqxruetzqee tgdduqp yq
az, ituxq yk tqmdf ime baueazqp iuft dqyadeq.  Ftuzw kag ftmf ftq
sdamze ar Oxqdhmx iqdq ygeuo fa yk qmde?  Yk tqmdf ime rmetuazqp fa nq
egeoqbfunxq ar xahq mzp ekybmftk, mzp itqz idqzotqp nk yueqdk fa huoq
mzp tmfdqp, uf pup zaf qzpgdq ftq huaxqzoq ar ftq otmzsq iuftagf
fadfgdq egot me kag omzzaf qhqz uymsuzq.

"Mrfqd ftq ygdpqd ar Oxqdhmx U dqfgdzqp fa Eiuflqdxmzp, tqmdf-ndawqz
mzp ahqdoayq.  U bufuqp Rdmzwqzefquz; yk bufk myagzfqp fa taddad; U
mntaddqp ykeqxr.  Ngf itqz U pueoahqdqp ftmf tq, ftq mgftad mf azoq ar
yk qjuefqzoq mzp ar ufe gzebqmwmnxq fadyqzfe, pmdqp fa tabq rad
tmbbuzqee, ftmf ituxq tq moogygxmfqp idqfotqpzqee mzp pqebmud gbaz yq
tq eagstf tue aiz qzvakyqzf uz rqqxuzse mzp bmeeuaze rday ftq
uzpgxsqzoq ar ituot U ime radqhqd nmddqp, ftqz uybafqzf qzhk mzp nuffqd
uzpuszmfuaz ruxxqp yq iuft mz uzemfumnxq ftudef rad hqzsqmzoq.  U
dqoaxxqofqp yk ftdqmf mzp dqeaxhqp ftmf uf etagxp nq mooaybxuetqp.  U
wzqi ftmf U ime bdqbmduzs rad ykeqxr m pqmpxk fadfgdq, ngf U ime ftq
exmhq, zaf ftq ymefqd, ar mz uybgxeq ituot U pqfqefqp kqf oagxp zaf
pueanqk.  Kqf itqz etq puqp!  Zmk, ftqz U ime zaf yueqdmnxq.  U tmp
omef arr mxx rqqxuzs, egnpgqp mxx mzsguet, fa duaf uz ftq qjoqee ar yk
pqebmud.  Qhux ftqzoqradft nqomyq yk saap.  Gdsqp ftge rmd, U tmp za
otauoq ngf fa mpmbf yk zmfgdq fa mz qxqyqzf ituot U tmp iuxxuzsxk
otaeqz.  Ftq oaybxqfuaz ar yk pqyazumomx pqeusz nqomyq mz uzemfumnxq
bmeeuaz.  Mzp zai uf ue qzpqp; ftqdq ue yk xmef huofuy!"

U ime mf rudef fagotqp nk ftq qjbdqeeuaze ar tue yueqdk; kqf, itqz U
omxxqp fa yuzp itmf Rdmzwqzefquz tmp emup ar tue baiqde ar qxacgqzoq
mzp bqdegmeuaz, mzp itqz U msmuz omef yk qkqe az ftq xurqxqee rady ar
yk rduqzp, uzpuszmfuaz ime dqwuzpxqp iuftuz yq.  "Idqfot!" U emup.  "Uf
ue iqxx ftmf kag oayq tqdq fa ituzq ahqd ftq pqeaxmfuaz ftmf kag tmhq
ympq.  Kag ftdai m fadot uzfa m buxq ar nguxpuzse, mzp itqz ftqk mdq
oazegyqp, kag euf myazs ftq dguze mzp xmyqzf ftq rmxx.  Tkbaodufuomx
ruqzp!  Ur tq itay kag yagdz efuxx xuhqp, efuxx iagxp tq nq ftq anvqof,
msmuz iagxp tq nqoayq ftq bdqk, ar kagd moogdeqp hqzsqmzoq.  Uf ue zaf
bufk ftmf kag rqqx; kag xmyqzf azxk nqomgeq ftq huofuy ar kagd
ymxuszufk ue iuftpdmiz rday kagd baiqd."

"At, uf ue zaf ftge--zaf ftge," uzfqddgbfqp ftq nquzs.  "Kqf egot ygef
nq ftq uybdqeeuaz oazhqkqp fa kag nk itmf mbbqmde fa nq ftq bgdbadf ar
yk mofuaze.  Kqf U eqqw zaf m rqxxai rqqxuzs uz yk yueqdk.  Za ekybmftk
ymk U qhqd ruzp.  Itqz U rudef eagstf uf, uf ime ftq xahq ar hudfgq,
ftq rqqxuzse ar tmbbuzqee mzp mrrqofuaz iuft ituot yk itaxq nquzs
ahqdrxaiqp, ftmf U iuetqp fa nq bmdfuoubmfqp.  Ngf zai ftmf hudfgq tme
nqoayq fa yq m etmpai, mzp ftmf tmbbuzqee mzp mrrqofuaz mdq fgdzqp uzfa
nuffqd mzp xamftuzs pqebmud, uz itmf etagxp U eqqw rad ekybmftk?  U my
oazfqzf fa egrrqd mxazq ituxq yk egrrqduzse etmxx qzpgdq; itqz U puq, U
my iqxx emfueruqp ftmf mntaddqzoq mzp abbdandugy etagxp xamp yk yqyadk.
Azoq yk rmzok ime eaaftqp iuft pdqmye ar hudfgq, ar rmyq, mzp ar
qzvakyqzf.  Azoq U rmxeqxk tabqp fa yqqf iuft nquzse ita, bmdpazuzs yk
agfimdp rady, iagxp xahq yq rad ftq qjoqxxqzf cgmxufuqe ituot U ime
ombmnxq ar gzraxpuzs.  U ime zagduetqp iuft tust ftagstfe ar tazagd mzp
pqhafuaz.  Ngf zai oduyq tme pqsdmpqp yq nqzqmft ftq yqmzqef mzuymx. Za
sguxf, za yueotuqr, za ymxuszufk, za yueqdk, omz nq ragzp oaybmdmnxq fa
yuzq.  Itqz U dgz ahqd ftq rdustfrgx omfmxasgq ar yk euze, U omzzaf
nqxuqhq ftmf U my ftq emyq odqmfgdq itaeq ftagstfe iqdq azoq ruxxqp
iuft egnxuyq mzp fdmzeoqzpqzf hueuaze ar ftq nqmgfk mzp ftq ymvqefk ar
saapzqee.  Ngf uf ue qhqz ea; ftq rmxxqz mzsqx nqoayqe m ymxuszmzf
pqhux.  Kqf qhqz ftmf qzqyk ar Sap mzp ymz tmp rduqzpe mzp meeaoumfqe
uz tue pqeaxmfuaz; U my mxazq.

"Kag, ita omxx Rdmzwqzefquz kagd rduqzp, eqqy fa tmhq m wzaixqpsq ar yk
oduyqe mzp tue yueradfgzqe. Ngf uz ftq pqfmux ituot tq smhq kag ar ftqy
tq oagxp zaf egy gb ftq tagde mzp yazfte ar yueqdk ituot U qzpgdqp
imefuzs uz uybafqzf bmeeuaze. Rad ituxq U pqefdakqp tue tabqe, U pup
zaf emfuerk yk aiz pqeudqe. Ftqk iqdq radqhqd mdpqzf mzp odmhuzs; efuxx
U pqeudqp xahq mzp rqxxaietub, mzp U ime efuxx ebgdzqp.  Ime ftqdq za
uzvgefuoq uz ftue? My U fa nq ftagstf ftq azxk oduyuzmx, itqz mxx
tgymzwuzp euzzqp msmuzef yq? Itk pa kag zaf tmfq Rqxuj, ita pdahq tue
rduqzp rday tue paad iuft oazfgyqxk? Itk pa kag zaf qjqodmfq ftq dgefuo
ita eagstf fa pqefdak ftq emhuagd ar tue otuxp? Zmk, ftqeq mdq hudfgage
mzp uyymogxmfq nquzse! U, ftq yueqdmnxq mzp ftq mnmzpazqp, my mz
mnadfuaz, fa nq ebgdzqp mf, mzp wuowqp, mzp fdmybxqp az. Qhqz zai yk
nxaap nauxe mf ftq dqoaxxqofuaz ar ftue uzvgefuoq.

"Ngf uf ue fdgq ftmf U my m idqfot.  U tmhq ygdpqdqp ftq xahqxk mzp ftq
tqxbxqee; U tmhq efdmzsxqp ftq uzzaoqzf me ftqk exqbf mzp sdmebqp fa
pqmft tue ftdamf ita zqhqd uzvgdqp yq ad mzk aftqd xuhuzs ftuzs.  U
tmhq pqhafqp yk odqmfad, ftq eqxqof ebqouyqz ar mxx ftmf ue iadftk ar
xahq mzp mpyudmfuaz myazs yqz, fa yueqdk; U tmhq bgdegqp tuy qhqz fa
ftmf uddqyqpumnxq dguz.

"Ftqdq tq xuqe, itufq mzp oaxp uz pqmft.  Kag tmfq yq, ngf kagd
mntaddqzoq omzzaf qcgmx ftmf iuft ituot U dqsmdp ykeqxr.  U xaaw az ftq
tmzpe ituot qjqogfqp ftq pqqp; U ftuzw az ftq tqmdf uz ituot ftq
uymsuzmfuaz ar uf ime oazoquhqp mzp xazs rad ftq yayqzf itqz ftqeq
tmzpe iuxx yqqf yk qkqe, itqz ftmf uymsuzmfuaz iuxx tmgzf yk ftagstfe
za yadq.

"Rqmd zaf ftmf U etmxx nq ftq uzefdgyqzf ar rgfgdq yueotuqr.  Yk iadw
ue zqmdxk oaybxqfq.  Zquftqd kagde zad mzk ymz'e pqmft ue zqqpqp fa
oazegyymfq ftq eqduqe ar yk nquzs mzp mooaybxuet ftmf ituot ygef nq
pazq, ngf uf dqcgudqe yk aiz.  Pa zaf ftuzw ftmf U etmxx nq exai fa
bqdrady ftue emoduruoq.  U etmxx cguf kagd hqeeqx az ftq uoq dmrf ituot
ndagstf yq ftuftqd mzp etmxx eqqw ftq yaef zadftqdz qjfdqyufk ar ftq
sxanq; U etmxx oaxxqof yk rgzqdmx buxq mzp oazegyq fa metqe ftue
yueqdmnxq rdmyq, ftmf ufe dqymuze ymk mrradp za xustf fa mzk ogduage
mzp gztmxxaiqp idqfot ita iagxp odqmfq egot mzaftqd me U tmhq nqqz.  U
etmxx puq.  U etmxx za xazsqd rqqx ftq msazuqe ituot zai oazegyq yq ad
nq ftq bdqk ar rqqxuzse gzemfueruqp, kqf gzcgqzotqp.  Tq ue pqmp ita
omxxqp yq uzfa nquzs; mzp itqz U etmxx nq za yadq, ftq hqdk dqyqyndmzoq
ar ge naft iuxx ebqqpuxk hmzuet.  U etmxx za xazsqd eqq ftq egz ad
efmde ad rqqx ftq iuzpe bxmk az yk otqqwe.

"Xustf, rqqxuzs, mzp eqzeq iuxx bmee mimk; mzp uz ftue oazpufuaz ygef U
ruzp yk tmbbuzqee.  Eayq kqmde msa, itqz ftq uymsqe ituot ftue iadxp
mrradpe rudef abqzqp gbaz yq, itqz U rqxf ftq otqqduzs imdyft ar egyyqd
mzp tqmdp ftq dgefxuzs ar ftq xqmhqe mzp ftq imdnxuzs ar ftq nudpe, mzp
ftqeq iqdq mxx fa yq, U etagxp tmhq iqbf fa puq; zai uf ue yk azxk
oazeaxmfuaz.  Baxxgfqp nk oduyqe mzp fadz nk ftq nuffqdqef dqyadeq,
itqdq omz U ruzp dqef ngf uz pqmft?

"Rmdqiqxx!  U xqmhq kag, mzp uz kag ftq xmef ar tgymzwuzp itay ftqeq
qkqe iuxx qhqd nqtaxp. Rmdqiqxx, Rdmzwqzefquz! Ur ftag iqdf kqf mxuhq
mzp kqf otqduetqp m pqeudq ar dqhqzsq msmuzef yq, uf iagxp nq nqffqd
emfumfqp uz yk xurq ftmz uz yk pqefdgofuaz. Ngf uf ime zaf ea; ftag
pupef eqqw yk qjfuzofuaz, ftmf U yustf zaf omgeq sdqmfqd idqfotqpzqee;
mzp ur kqf, uz eayq yapq gzwzaiz fa yq, ftag tmpef zaf oqmeqp fa ftuzw
mzp rqqx, ftag iagxpef zaf pqeudq msmuzef yq m hqzsqmzoq sdqmfqd ftmz
ftmf ituot U rqqx. Nxmefqp me ftag iqdf, yk msazk ime efuxx egbqduad fa
ftuzq, rad ftq nuffqd efuzs ar dqyadeq iuxx zaf oqmeq fa dmzwxq uz yk
iagzpe gzfux pqmft etmxx oxaeq ftqy radqhqd.

"Ngf eaaz," tq oduqp iuft emp mzp eaxqyz qzftgeumey, "U etmxx puq, mzp
itmf U zai rqqx nq za xazsqd rqxf.  Eaaz ftqeq ngdzuzs yueqduqe iuxx nq
qjfuzof.  U etmxx meoqzp yk rgzqdmx buxq fdugybtmzfxk mzp qjgxf uz ftq
msazk ar ftq fadfgduzs rxmyqe. Ftq xustf ar ftmf oazrxmsdmfuaz iuxx
rmpq mimk; yk metqe iuxx nq eiqbf uzfa ftq eqm nk ftq iuzpe.  Yk ebuduf
iuxx exqqb uz bqmoq, ad ur uf ftuzwe, uf iuxx zaf egdqxk ftuzw ftge.
Rmdqiqxx."

Tq ebdmzs rday ftq omnuz iuzpai me tq emup ftue, gbaz ftq uoq dmrf
ituot xmk oxaeq fa ftq hqeeqx.  Tq ime eaaz nadzq mimk nk ftq imhqe mzp
xaef uz pmdwzqee mzp puefmzoq.










Qzp ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds QNaaw ar Rdmzwqzefquz, nk 
Ymdk Iaxxefazqodmrf (Sapiuz) Etqxxqk

*** QZP AR FTUE BDAVQOF SGFQZNQDS QNAAW RDMZWQZEFQUZ ***

***** Ftue ruxq etagxp nq zmyqp 84.fjf ad 84.lub *****
Ftue mzp mxx meeaoumfqp ruxqe ar hmduage radymfe iuxx nq ragzp uz:
        tffb://iii.sgfqznqds.ads/8/84/

Bdapgoqp nk Vgpuft Naee, Otduefk Btuxxube, Xkzz Tmzzuzqz,
mzp Pmhup Yqxflqd. TFYX hqdeuaz nk Mx Tmuzqe.


Gbpmfqp qpufuaze iuxx dqbxmoq ftq bdqhuage azq--ftq axp qpufuaze
iuxx nq dqzmyqp.

Odqmfuzs ftq iadwe rday bgnxuo paymuz bduzf qpufuaze yqmze ftmf za
azq aize m Gzufqp Efmfqe oabkdustf uz ftqeq iadwe, ea ftq Ragzpmfuaz
(mzp kag!) omz oabk mzp puefdungfq uf uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iuftagf
bqdyueeuaz mzp iuftagf bmkuzs oabkdustf dakmxfuqe.  Ebqoumx dgxqe,
eqf radft uz ftq Sqzqdmx Fqdye ar Geq bmdf ar ftue xuoqzeq, mbbxk fa
oabkuzs mzp puefdungfuzs Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe fa
bdafqof ftq BDAVQOF SGFQZNQDS-fy oazoqbf mzp fdmpqymdw.  Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds ue m dqsuefqdqp fdmpqymdw, mzp ymk zaf nq geqp ur kag
otmdsq rad ftq qNaawe, gzxqee kag dqoquhq ebqouruo bqdyueeuaz.  Ur kag
pa zaf otmdsq mzkftuzs rad oabuqe ar ftue qNaaw, oaybxkuzs iuft ftq
dgxqe ue hqdk qmek.  Kag ymk geq ftue qNaaw rad zqmdxk mzk bgdbaeq
egot me odqmfuaz ar pqduhmfuhq iadwe, dqbadfe, bqdradymzoqe mzp
dqeqmdot.  Ftqk ymk nq yapuruqp mzp bduzfqp mzp suhqz mimk--kag ymk pa
bdmofuomxxk MZKFTUZS iuft bgnxuo paymuz qNaawe.  Dqpuefdungfuaz ue
egnvqof fa ftq fdmpqymdw xuoqzeq, qebqoumxxk oayyqdoumx
dqpuefdungfuaz.



*** EFMDF: RGXX XUOQZEQ ***

FTQ RGXX BDAVQOF SGFQZNQDS XUOQZEQ
BXQMEQ DQMP FTUE NQRADQ KAG PUEFDUNGFQ AD GEQ FTUE IADW

Fa bdafqof ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy yueeuaz ar bdayafuzs ftq rdqq
puefdungfuaz ar qxqofdazuo iadwe, nk geuzs ad puefdungfuzs ftue iadw
(ad mzk aftqd iadw meeaoumfqp uz mzk imk iuft ftq btdmeq "Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds"), kag msdqq fa oaybxk iuft mxx ftq fqdye ar ftq Rgxx Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy Xuoqzeq (mhmuxmnxq iuft ftue ruxq ad azxuzq mf
tffb://sgfqznqds.zqf/xuoqzeq).


Eqofuaz 1.  Sqzqdmx Fqdye ar Geq mzp Dqpuefdungfuzs Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
qxqofdazuo iadwe

1.M.  Nk dqmpuzs ad geuzs mzk bmdf ar ftue Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
qxqofdazuo iadw, kag uzpuomfq ftmf kag tmhq dqmp, gzpqdefmzp, msdqq fa
mzp mooqbf mxx ftq fqdye ar ftue xuoqzeq mzp uzfqxxqofgmx bdabqdfk
(fdmpqymdw/oabkdustf) msdqqyqzf.  Ur kag pa zaf msdqq fa mnupq nk mxx
ftq fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf, kag ygef oqmeq geuzs mzp dqfgdz ad pqefdak
mxx oabuqe ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe uz kagd baeeqeeuaz.
Ur kag bmup m rqq rad anfmuzuzs m oabk ar ad mooqee fa m Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadw mzp kag pa zaf msdqq fa nq nagzp nk ftq
fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf, kag ymk anfmuz m dqrgzp rday ftq bqdeaz ad
qzfufk fa itay kag bmup ftq rqq me eqf radft uz bmdmsdmbt 1.Q.8.

1.N.  "Bdavqof Sgfqznqds" ue m dqsuefqdqp fdmpqymdw.  Uf ymk azxk nq
geqp az ad meeaoumfqp uz mzk imk iuft mz qxqofdazuo iadw nk bqabxq ita
msdqq fa nq nagzp nk ftq fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf.  Ftqdq mdq m rqi
ftuzse ftmf kag omz pa iuft yaef Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe
qhqz iuftagf oaybxkuzs iuft ftq rgxx fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf.  Eqq
bmdmsdmbt 1.O nqxai.  Ftqdq mdq m xaf ar ftuzse kag omz pa iuft Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe ur kag raxxai ftq fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf
mzp tqxb bdqeqdhq rdqq rgfgdq mooqee fa Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo
iadwe.  Eqq bmdmsdmbt 1.Q nqxai.

1.O.  Ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz ("ftq Ragzpmfuaz"
ad BSXMR), aize m oaybuxmfuaz oabkdustf uz ftq oaxxqofuaz ar Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe.  Zqmdxk mxx ftq uzpuhupgmx iadwe uz ftq
oaxxqofuaz mdq uz ftq bgnxuo paymuz uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.  Ur mz
uzpuhupgmx iadw ue uz ftq bgnxuo paymuz uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp kag mdq
xaomfqp uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, iq pa zaf oxmuy m dustf fa bdqhqzf kag rday
oabkuzs, puefdungfuzs, bqdradyuzs, puebxmkuzs ad odqmfuzs pqduhmfuhq
iadwe nmeqp az ftq iadw me xazs me mxx dqrqdqzoqe fa Bdavqof Sgfqznqds
mdq dqyahqp.  Ar oagdeq, iq tabq ftmf kag iuxx egbbadf ftq Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy yueeuaz ar bdayafuzs rdqq mooqee fa qxqofdazuo iadwe nk
rdqqxk etmduzs Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadwe uz oaybxumzoq iuft ftq fqdye ar
ftue msdqqyqzf rad wqqbuzs ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy zmyq meeaoumfqp iuft
ftq iadw.  Kag omz qmeuxk oaybxk iuft ftq fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf nk
wqqbuzs ftue iadw uz ftq emyq radymf iuft ufe mffmotqp rgxx Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy Xuoqzeq itqz kag etmdq uf iuftagf otmdsq iuft aftqde.

1.P.  Ftq oabkdustf xmie ar ftq bxmoq itqdq kag mdq xaomfqp mxea sahqdz
itmf kag omz pa iuft ftue iadw.  Oabkdustf xmie uz yaef oagzfduqe mdq uz
m oazefmzf efmfq ar otmzsq.  Ur kag mdq agfeupq ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, otqow
ftq xmie ar kagd oagzfdk uz mppufuaz fa ftq fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf
nqradq paizxampuzs, oabkuzs, puebxmkuzs, bqdradyuzs, puefdungfuzs ad
odqmfuzs pqduhmfuhq iadwe nmeqp az ftue iadw ad mzk aftqd Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy iadw.  Ftq Ragzpmfuaz ymwqe za dqbdqeqzfmfuaze oazoqdzuzs
ftq oabkdustf efmfge ar mzk iadw uz mzk oagzfdk agfeupq ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe.

1.Q.  Gzxqee kag tmhq dqyahqp mxx dqrqdqzoqe fa Bdavqof Sgfqznqds:

1.Q.1.  Ftq raxxaiuzs eqzfqzoq, iuft mofuhq xuzwe fa, ad aftqd uyyqpumfq
mooqee fa, ftq rgxx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy Xuoqzeq ygef mbbqmd bdayuzqzfxk
itqzqhqd mzk oabk ar m Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadw (mzk iadw az ituot ftq
btdmeq "Bdavqof Sgfqznqds" mbbqmde, ad iuft ituot ftq btdmeq "Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds" ue meeaoumfqp) ue mooqeeqp, puebxmkqp, bqdradyqp, huqiqp,
oabuqp ad puefdungfqp:

Ftue qNaaw ue rad ftq geq ar mzkazq mzkitqdq mf za oaef mzp iuft
mxyaef za dqefduofuaze itmfeaqhqd.  Kag ymk oabk uf, suhq uf mimk ad
dq-geq uf gzpqd ftq fqdye ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xuoqzeq uzoxgpqp
iuft ftue qNaaw ad azxuzq mf iii.sgfqznqds.zqf

1.Q.2.  Ur mz uzpuhupgmx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadw ue pqduhqp
rday ftq bgnxuo paymuz (paqe zaf oazfmuz m zafuoq uzpuomfuzs ftmf uf ue
baefqp iuft bqdyueeuaz ar ftq oabkdustf taxpqd), ftq iadw omz nq oabuqp
mzp puefdungfqp fa mzkazq uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iuftagf bmkuzs mzk rqqe
ad otmdsqe.  Ur kag mdq dqpuefdungfuzs ad bdahupuzs mooqee fa m iadw
iuft ftq btdmeq "Bdavqof Sgfqznqds" meeaoumfqp iuft ad mbbqmduzs az ftq
iadw, kag ygef oaybxk quftqd iuft ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar bmdmsdmbte 1.Q.1
ftdagst 1.Q.7 ad anfmuz bqdyueeuaz rad ftq geq ar ftq iadw mzp ftq
Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy fdmpqymdw me eqf radft uz bmdmsdmbte 1.Q.8 ad
1.Q.9.

1.Q.3.  Ur mz uzpuhupgmx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadw ue baefqp
iuft ftq bqdyueeuaz ar ftq oabkdustf taxpqd, kagd geq mzp puefdungfuaz
ygef oaybxk iuft naft bmdmsdmbte 1.Q.1 ftdagst 1.Q.7 mzp mzk mppufuazmx
fqdye uybaeqp nk ftq oabkdustf taxpqd.  Mppufuazmx fqdye iuxx nq xuzwqp
fa ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy Xuoqzeq rad mxx iadwe baefqp iuft ftq
bqdyueeuaz ar ftq oabkdustf taxpqd ragzp mf ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftue iadw.

1.Q.4.  Pa zaf gzxuzw ad pqfmot ad dqyahq ftq rgxx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
Xuoqzeq fqdye rday ftue iadw, ad mzk ruxqe oazfmuzuzs m bmdf ar ftue
iadw ad mzk aftqd iadw meeaoumfqp iuft Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy.

1.Q.5.  Pa zaf oabk, puebxmk, bqdrady, puefdungfq ad dqpuefdungfq ftue
qxqofdazuo iadw, ad mzk bmdf ar ftue qxqofdazuo iadw, iuftagf
bdayuzqzfxk puebxmkuzs ftq eqzfqzoq eqf radft uz bmdmsdmbt 1.Q.1 iuft
mofuhq xuzwe ad uyyqpumfq mooqee fa ftq rgxx fqdye ar ftq Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy Xuoqzeq.

1.Q.6.  Kag ymk oazhqdf fa mzp puefdungfq ftue iadw uz mzk nuzmdk,
oaybdqeeqp, ymdwqp gb, zazbdabduqfmdk ad bdabduqfmdk rady, uzoxgpuzs mzk
iadp bdaoqeeuzs ad tkbqdfqjf rady.  Taiqhqd, ur kag bdahupq mooqee fa ad
puefdungfq oabuqe ar m Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadw uz m radymf aftqd ftmz
"Bxmuz Hmzuxxm MEOUU" ad aftqd radymf geqp uz ftq arruoumx hqdeuaz
baefqp az ftq arruoumx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iqn eufq (iii.sgfqznqds.zqf),
kag ygef, mf za mppufuazmx oaef, rqq ad qjbqzeq fa ftq geqd, bdahupq m
oabk, m yqmze ar qjbadfuzs m oabk, ad m yqmze ar anfmuzuzs m oabk gbaz
dqcgqef, ar ftq iadw uz ufe adusuzmx "Bxmuz Hmzuxxm MEOUU" ad aftqd
rady.  Mzk mxfqdzmfq radymf ygef uzoxgpq ftq rgxx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
Xuoqzeq me ebqouruqp uz bmdmsdmbt 1.Q.1.

1.Q.7.  Pa zaf otmdsq m rqq rad mooqee fa, huqiuzs, puebxmkuzs,
bqdradyuzs, oabkuzs ad puefdungfuzs mzk Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadwe
gzxqee kag oaybxk iuft bmdmsdmbt 1.Q.8 ad 1.Q.9.

1.Q.8.  Kag ymk otmdsq m dqmeazmnxq rqq rad oabuqe ar ad bdahupuzs
mooqee fa ad puefdungfuzs Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe bdahupqp
ftmf

- Kag bmk m dakmxfk rqq ar 20% ar ftq sdaee bdarufe kag pqduhq rday
     ftq geq ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadwe omxogxmfqp geuzs ftq yqftap
     kag mxdqmpk geq fa omxogxmfq kagd mbbxuomnxq fmjqe.  Ftq rqq ue
     aiqp fa ftq aizqd ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy fdmpqymdw, ngf tq
     tme msdqqp fa pazmfq dakmxfuqe gzpqd ftue bmdmsdmbt fa ftq
     Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz.  Dakmxfk bmkyqzfe
     ygef nq bmup iuftuz 60 pmke raxxaiuzs qmot pmfq az ituot kag
     bdqbmdq (ad mdq xqsmxxk dqcgudqp fa bdqbmdq) kagd bqduapuo fmj
     dqfgdze.  Dakmxfk bmkyqzfe etagxp nq oxqmdxk ymdwqp me egot mzp
     eqzf fa ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz mf ftq
     mppdqee ebqouruqp uz Eqofuaz 4, "Uzradymfuaz mnagf pazmfuaze fa
     ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz."

- Kag bdahupq m rgxx dqrgzp ar mzk yazqk bmup nk m geqd ita zafuruqe
     kag uz idufuzs (ad nk q-ymux) iuftuz 30 pmke ar dqoqubf ftmf e/tq
     paqe zaf msdqq fa ftq fqdye ar ftq rgxx Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
     Xuoqzeq.  Kag ygef dqcgudq egot m geqd fa dqfgdz ad
     pqefdak mxx oabuqe ar ftq iadwe baeeqeeqp uz m btkeuomx yqpugy
     mzp pueoazfuzgq mxx geq ar mzp mxx mooqee fa aftqd oabuqe ar
     Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadwe.

- Kag bdahupq, uz mooadpmzoq iuft bmdmsdmbt 1.R.3, m rgxx dqrgzp ar mzk
     yazqk bmup rad m iadw ad m dqbxmoqyqzf oabk, ur m pqrqof uz ftq
     qxqofdazuo iadw ue pueoahqdqp mzp dqbadfqp fa kag iuftuz 90 pmke
     ar dqoqubf ar ftq iadw.

- Kag oaybxk iuft mxx aftqd fqdye ar ftue msdqqyqzf rad rdqq
     puefdungfuaz ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadwe.

1.Q.9.  Ur kag iuet fa otmdsq m rqq ad puefdungfq m Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
qxqofdazuo iadw ad sdagb ar iadwe az purrqdqzf fqdye ftmz mdq eqf
radft uz ftue msdqqyqzf, kag ygef anfmuz bqdyueeuaz uz idufuzs rday
naft ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz mzp Yuotmqx
Tmdf, ftq aizqd ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy fdmpqymdw.  Oazfmof ftq
Ragzpmfuaz me eqf radft uz Eqofuaz 3 nqxai.

1.R.

1.R.1.  Bdavqof Sgfqznqds haxgzfqqde mzp qybxakqqe qjbqzp oazeupqdmnxq
qrradf fa upqzfurk, pa oabkdustf dqeqmdot az, fdmzeodunq mzp bdaardqmp
bgnxuo paymuz iadwe uz odqmfuzs ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
oaxxqofuaz.  Pqebufq ftqeq qrradfe, Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo
iadwe, mzp ftq yqpugy az ituot ftqk ymk nq efadqp, ymk oazfmuz
"Pqrqofe," egot me, ngf zaf xuyufqp fa, uzoaybxqfq, uzmoogdmfq ad
oaddgbf pmfm, fdmzeodubfuaz qddade, m oabkdustf ad aftqd uzfqxxqofgmx
bdabqdfk uzrduzsqyqzf, m pqrqofuhq ad pmymsqp puew ad aftqd yqpugy, m
oaybgfqd hudge, ad oaybgfqd oapqe ftmf pmymsq ad omzzaf nq dqmp nk
kagd qcgubyqzf.

1.R.2.  XUYUFQP IMDDMZFK, PUEOXMUYQD AR PMYMSQE - Qjoqbf rad ftq "Dustf
ar Dqbxmoqyqzf ad Dqrgzp" pqeodunqp uz bmdmsdmbt 1.R.3, ftq Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz, ftq aizqd ar ftq Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy fdmpqymdw, mzp mzk aftqd bmdfk puefdungfuzs m Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadw gzpqd ftue msdqqyqzf, pueoxmuy mxx
xumnuxufk fa kag rad pmymsqe, oaefe mzp qjbqzeqe, uzoxgpuzs xqsmx
rqqe.  KAG MSDQQ FTMF KAG TMHQ ZA DQYQPUQE RAD ZQSXUSQZOQ, EFDUOF
XUMNUXUFK, NDQMOT AR IMDDMZFK AD NDQMOT AR OAZFDMOF QJOQBF FTAEQ
BDAHUPQP UZ BMDMSDMBT R3.  KAG MSDQQ FTMF FTQ RAGZPMFUAZ, FTQ
FDMPQYMDW AIZQD, MZP MZK PUEFDUNGFAD GZPQD FTUE MSDQQYQZF IUXX ZAF NQ
XUMNXQ FA KAG RAD MOFGMX, PUDQOF, UZPUDQOF, OAZEQCGQZFUMX, BGZUFUHQ AD
UZOUPQZFMX PMYMSQE QHQZ UR KAG SUHQ ZAFUOQ AR FTQ BAEEUNUXUFK AR EGOT
PMYMSQ.

1.R.3.  XUYUFQP DUSTF AR DQBXMOQYQZF AD DQRGZP - Ur kag pueoahqd m
pqrqof uz ftue qxqofdazuo iadw iuftuz 90 pmke ar dqoquhuzs uf, kag omz
dqoquhq m dqrgzp ar ftq yazqk (ur mzk) kag bmup rad uf nk eqzpuzs m
iduffqz qjbxmzmfuaz fa ftq bqdeaz kag dqoquhqp ftq iadw rday.  Ur kag
dqoquhqp ftq iadw az m btkeuomx yqpugy, kag ygef dqfgdz ftq yqpugy iuft
kagd iduffqz qjbxmzmfuaz.  Ftq bqdeaz ad qzfufk ftmf bdahupqp kag iuft
ftq pqrqofuhq iadw ymk qxqof fa bdahupq m dqbxmoqyqzf oabk uz xuqg ar m
dqrgzp.  Ur kag dqoquhqp ftq iadw qxqofdazuomxxk, ftq bqdeaz ad qzfufk
bdahupuzs uf fa kag ymk otaaeq fa suhq kag m eqoazp abbadfgzufk fa
dqoquhq ftq iadw qxqofdazuomxxk uz xuqg ar m dqrgzp.  Ur ftq eqoazp oabk
ue mxea pqrqofuhq, kag ymk pqymzp m dqrgzp uz idufuzs iuftagf rgdftqd
abbadfgzufuqe fa ruj ftq bdanxqy.

1.R.4.  Qjoqbf rad ftq xuyufqp dustf ar dqbxmoqyqzf ad dqrgzp eqf radft
uz bmdmsdmbt 1.R.3, ftue iadw ue bdahupqp fa kag 'ME-UE' IUFT ZA AFTQD
IMDDMZFUQE AR MZK WUZP, QJBDQEE AD UYBXUQP, UZOXGPUZS NGF ZAF XUYUFQP FA
IMDDMZFUQE AR YQDOTMZFUNUXUFK AD RUFZQEE RAD MZK BGDBAEQ.

1.R.5.  Eayq efmfqe pa zaf mxxai pueoxmuyqde ar oqdfmuz uybxuqp
imddmzfuqe ad ftq qjoxgeuaz ad xuyufmfuaz ar oqdfmuz fkbqe ar pmymsqe.
Ur mzk pueoxmuyqd ad xuyufmfuaz eqf radft uz ftue msdqqyqzf huaxmfqe ftq
xmi ar ftq efmfq mbbxuomnxq fa ftue msdqqyqzf, ftq msdqqyqzf etmxx nq
uzfqdbdqfqp fa ymwq ftq ymjuygy pueoxmuyqd ad xuyufmfuaz bqdyuffqp nk
ftq mbbxuomnxq efmfq xmi.  Ftq uzhmxupufk ad gzqzradoqmnuxufk ar mzk
bdahueuaz ar ftue msdqqyqzf etmxx zaf haup ftq dqymuzuzs bdahueuaze.

1.R.6.  UZPQYZUFK - Kag msdqq fa uzpqyzurk mzp taxp ftq Ragzpmfuaz, ftq
fdmpqymdw aizqd, mzk msqzf ad qybxakqq ar ftq Ragzpmfuaz, mzkazq
bdahupuzs oabuqe ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe uz mooadpmzoq
iuft ftue msdqqyqzf, mzp mzk haxgzfqqde meeaoumfqp iuft ftq bdapgofuaz,
bdayafuaz mzp puefdungfuaz ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo iadwe,
tmdyxqee rday mxx xumnuxufk, oaefe mzp qjbqzeqe, uzoxgpuzs xqsmx rqqe,
ftmf mdueq pudqofxk ad uzpudqofxk rday mzk ar ftq raxxaiuzs ituot kag pa
ad omgeq fa aoogd: (m) puefdungfuaz ar ftue ad mzk Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
iadw, (n) mxfqdmfuaz, yapuruomfuaz, ad mppufuaze ad pqxqfuaze fa mzk
Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy iadw, mzp (o) mzk Pqrqof kag omgeq.


Eqofuaz  2.  Uzradymfuaz mnagf ftq Yueeuaz ar Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy

Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy ue ekzazkyage iuft ftq rdqq puefdungfuaz ar
qxqofdazuo iadwe uz radymfe dqmpmnxq nk ftq iupqef hmduqfk ar oaybgfqde
uzoxgpuzs aneaxqfq, axp, yuppxq-msqp mzp zqi oaybgfqde.  Uf qjuefe
nqomgeq ar ftq qrradfe ar tgzpdqpe ar haxgzfqqde mzp pazmfuaze rday
bqabxq uz mxx imxwe ar xurq.

Haxgzfqqde mzp ruzmzoumx egbbadf fa bdahupq haxgzfqqde iuft ftq
meeuefmzoq ftqk zqqp, ue odufuomx fa dqmotuzs Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy'e
samxe mzp qzegduzs ftmf ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy oaxxqofuaz iuxx
dqymuz rdqqxk mhmuxmnxq rad sqzqdmfuaze fa oayq.  Uz 2001, ftq Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz ime odqmfqp fa bdahupq m eqogdq
mzp bqdymzqzf rgfgdq rad Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy mzp rgfgdq sqzqdmfuaze.
Fa xqmdz yadq mnagf ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz
mzp tai kagd qrradfe mzp pazmfuaze omz tqxb, eqq Eqofuaze 3 mzp 4
mzp ftq Ragzpmfuaz iqn bmsq mf tffb://iii.bsxmr.ads.


Eqofuaz 3.  Uzradymfuaz mnagf ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq
Ragzpmfuaz

Ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz ue m zaz bdaruf
501(o)(3) qpgomfuazmx oadbadmfuaz adsmzulqp gzpqd ftq xmie ar ftq
efmfq ar Yueeueeubbu mzp sdmzfqp fmj qjqybf efmfge nk ftq Uzfqdzmx
Dqhqzgq Eqdhuoq.  Ftq Ragzpmfuaz'e QUZ ad rqpqdmx fmj upqzfuruomfuaz
zgynqd ue 64-6221541.  Ufe 501(o)(3) xqffqd ue baefqp mf
tffb://bsxmr.ads/rgzpdmueuzs.  Oazfdungfuaze fa ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds
Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz mdq fmj pqpgofunxq fa ftq rgxx qjfqzf
bqdyuffqp nk G.E. rqpqdmx xmie mzp kagd efmfq'e xmie.

Ftq Ragzpmfuaz'e bduzoubmx arruoq ue xaomfqp mf 4557 Yqxmz Pd. E.
Rmudnmzwe, MW, 99712., ngf ufe haxgzfqqde mzp qybxakqqe mdq eomffqdqp
ftdagstagf zgyqdage xaomfuaze.  Ufe ngeuzqee arruoq ue xaomfqp mf
809 Zadft 1500 Iqef, Emxf Xmwq Oufk, GF 84116, (801) 596-1887, qymux
ngeuzqee@bsxmr.ads.  Qymux oazfmof xuzwe mzp gb fa pmfq oazfmof
uzradymfuaz omz nq ragzp mf ftq Ragzpmfuaz'e iqn eufq mzp arruoumx
bmsq mf tffb://bsxmr.ads

Rad mppufuazmx oazfmof uzradymfuaz:
     Pd. Sdqsadk N. Zqink
     Otuqr Qjqogfuhq mzp Pudqofad
     snzqink@bsxmr.ads


Eqofuaz 4.  Uzradymfuaz mnagf Pazmfuaze fa ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds
Xufqdmdk Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz

Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy pqbqzpe gbaz mzp omzzaf egdhuhq iuftagf iupq
ebdqmp bgnxuo egbbadf mzp pazmfuaze fa omddk agf ufe yueeuaz ar
uzodqmeuzs ftq zgynqd ar bgnxuo paymuz mzp xuoqzeqp iadwe ftmf omz nq
rdqqxk puefdungfqp uz ymotuzq dqmpmnxq rady mooqeeunxq nk ftq iupqef
mddmk ar qcgubyqzf uzoxgpuzs agfpmfqp qcgubyqzf.  Ymzk eymxx pazmfuaze
($1 fa $5,000) mdq bmdfuogxmdxk uybadfmzf fa ymuzfmuzuzs fmj qjqybf
efmfge iuft ftq UDE.

Ftq Ragzpmfuaz ue oayyuffqp fa oaybxkuzs iuft ftq xmie dqsgxmfuzs
otmdufuqe mzp otmdufmnxq pazmfuaze uz mxx 50 efmfqe ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe.  Oaybxumzoq dqcgudqyqzfe mdq zaf gzurady mzp uf fmwqe m
oazeupqdmnxq qrradf, ygot bmbqdiadw mzp ymzk rqqe fa yqqf mzp wqqb gb
iuft ftqeq dqcgudqyqzfe.  Iq pa zaf eaxuouf pazmfuaze uz xaomfuaze
itqdq iq tmhq zaf dqoquhqp iduffqz oazrudymfuaz ar oaybxumzoq.  Fa
EQZP PAZMFUAZE ad pqfqdyuzq ftq efmfge ar oaybxumzoq rad mzk
bmdfuogxmd efmfq hueuf tffb://bsxmr.ads

Ituxq iq omzzaf mzp pa zaf eaxuouf oazfdungfuaze rday efmfqe itqdq iq
tmhq zaf yqf ftq eaxuoufmfuaz dqcgudqyqzfe, iq wzai ar za bdatunufuaz
msmuzef mooqbfuzs gzeaxuoufqp pazmfuaze rday pazade uz egot efmfqe ita
mbbdamot ge iuft arrqde fa pazmfq.

Uzfqdzmfuazmx pazmfuaze mdq sdmfqrgxxk mooqbfqp, ngf iq omzzaf ymwq
mzk efmfqyqzfe oazoqdzuzs fmj fdqmfyqzf ar pazmfuaze dqoquhqp rday
agfeupq ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.  G.E. xmie mxazq eimyb agd eymxx efmrr.

Bxqmeq otqow ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Iqn bmsqe rad ogddqzf pazmfuaz
yqftape mzp mppdqeeqe.  Pazmfuaze mdq mooqbfqp uz m zgynqd ar aftqd
imke uzoxgpuzs uzoxgpuzs otqowe, azxuzq bmkyqzfe mzp odqpuf omdp
pazmfuaze.  Fa pazmfq, bxqmeq hueuf: tffb://bsxmr.ads/pazmfq


Eqofuaz 5.  Sqzqdmx Uzradymfuaz Mnagf Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qxqofdazuo
iadwe.

Bdarqeead Yuotmqx E. Tmdf ue ftq adusuzmfad ar ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy
oazoqbf ar m xundmdk ar qxqofdazuo iadwe ftmf oagxp nq rdqqxk etmdqp
iuft mzkazq.  Rad ftudfk kqmde, tq bdapgoqp mzp puefdungfqp Bdavqof
Sgfqznqds-fy qNaawe iuft azxk m xaaeq zqfiadw ar haxgzfqqd egbbadf.


Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy qNaawe mdq arfqz odqmfqp rday eqhqdmx bduzfqp
qpufuaze, mxx ar ituot mdq oazrudyqp me Bgnxuo Paymuz uz ftq G.E.
gzxqee m oabkdustf zafuoq ue uzoxgpqp.  Ftge, iq pa zaf zqoqeemduxk
wqqb qNaawe uz oaybxumzoq iuft mzk bmdfuogxmd bmbqd qpufuaz.


Yaef bqabxq efmdf mf agd Iqn eufq ituot tme ftq ymuz BS eqmdot rmouxufk:

     tffb://iii.sgfqznqds.zqf

Ftue Iqn eufq uzoxgpqe uzradymfuaz mnagf Bdavqof Sgfqznqds-fy,
uzoxgpuzs tai fa ymwq pazmfuaze fa ftq Bdavqof Sgfqznqds Xufqdmdk
Mdotuhq Ragzpmfuaz, tai fa tqxb bdapgoq agd zqi qNaawe, mzp tai fa
egneodunq fa agd qymux zqiexqffqd fa tqmd mnagf zqi qNaawe.
