Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo'a Nzivsmvabmqv, jg Uizg Ewttabwvmkzinb (Owleqv) Apmttmg

Bpqa mJwws qa nwz bpm cam wn ivgwvm ivgepmzm ib vw kwab ivl eqbp
ituwab vw zmabzqkbqwva epibawmdmz.  Gwc uig kwxg qb, oqdm qb ieig wz
zm-cam qb cvlmz bpm bmzua wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqkmvam qvktclml
eqbp bpqa mJwws wz wvtqvm ib eee.ocbmvjmzo.vmb


Bqbtm: Nzivsmvabmqv
       wz Bpm Uwlmzv Xzwumbpmca

Icbpwz: Uizg Ewttabwvmkzinb (Owleqv) Apmttmg

Zmtmiam Libm: Rcvm 17, 2008 [MJwws #84]

Tivociom: Mvotqap


*** ABIZB WN BPQA XZWRMKB OCBMVJMZO MJWWS NZIVSMVABMQV ***




Xzwlckml jg Rclqbp Jwaa, Kpzqabg Xpqttqxa, Tgvv Pivvqvmv,
ivl Lidql Umtbhmz. PBUT dmzaqwv jg It Piqvma.










Nzivsmvabmqv,

wz bpm Uwlmzv Xzwumbpmca


jg

Uizg Ewttabwvmkzinb (Owleqv) Apmttmg




Tmbbmz 1


Ab. Xmbmzajczop, Lmk. 11bp, 17--

BW Uza. Aidqttm, Mvotivl

Gwc eqtt zmrwqkm bw pmiz bpib vw lqaiabmz pia ikkwuxivqml bpm
kwuumvkmumvb wn iv mvbmzxzqam epqkp gwc pidm zmoizlml eqbp ackp mdqt
nwzmjwlqvoa.  Q izzqdml pmzm gmabmzlig, ivl ug nqzab bias qa bw iaaczm
ug lmiz aqabmz wn ug emtnizm ivl qvkzmiaqvo kwvnqlmvkm qv bpm ackkmaa
wn ug cvlmzbisqvo.

Q iu itzmilg niz vwzbp wn Twvlwv, ivl ia Q eits qv bpm abzmmba wn
Xmbmzajczop, Q nmmt i kwtl vwzbpmzv jzmmhm xtig cxwv ug kpmmsa, epqkp
jzikma ug vmzdma ivl nqtta um eqbp lmtqopb.  Lw gwc cvlmzabivl bpqa
nmmtqvo?  Bpqa jzmmhm, epqkp pia bzidmttml nzwu bpm zmoqwva bweizla
epqkp Q iu ildivkqvo, oqdma um i nwzmbiabm wn bpwam qkg ktquma.
Qvaxqzqbml jg bpqa eqvl wn xzwuqam, ug liglzmiua jmkwum uwzm nmzdmvb
ivl dqdql.  Q bzg qv diqv bw jm xmzacilml bpib bpm xwtm qa bpm amib wn
nzwab ivl lmawtibqwv; qb mdmz xzmamvba qbamtn bw ug quioqvibqwv ia bpm
zmoqwv wn jmicbg ivl lmtqopb.  Bpmzm, Uizoizmb, bpm acv qa nwzmdmz
dqaqjtm, qba jzwil lqas rcab asqzbqvo bpm pwzqhwv ivl lqnncaqvo i
xmzxmbcit axtmvlwcz.  Bpmzm--nwz eqbp gwcz tmidm, ug aqabmz, Q eqtt xcb
awum bzcab qv xzmkmlqvo vidqoibwza--bpmzm avwe ivl nzwab izm jivqapml;
ivl, aiqtqvo wdmz i kitu ami, em uig jm einbml bw i tivl aczxiaaqvo qv
ewvlmza ivl qv jmicbg mdmzg zmoqwv pqbpmzbw lqakwdmzml wv bpm pijqbijtm
otwjm.  Qba xzwlckbqwva ivl nmibczma uig jm eqbpwcb mfiuxtm, ia bpm
xpmvwumvi wn bpm pmidmvtg jwlqma cvlwcjbmltg izm qv bpwam cvlqakwdmzml
awtqbclma.  Epib uig vwb jm mfxmkbml qv i kwcvbzg wn mbmzvit tqopb?  Q
uig bpmzm lqakwdmz bpm ewvlzwca xwemz epqkp ibbzikba bpm vmmltm ivl uig
zmoctibm i bpwcaivl kmtmabqit wjamzdibqwva bpib zmycqzm wvtg bpqa
dwgiom bw zmvlmz bpmqz ammuqvo mkkmvbzqkqbqma kwvaqabmvb nwzmdmz.  Q
apitt aibqibm ug izlmvb kczqwaqbg eqbp bpm aqopb wn i xizb wn bpm ewztl
vmdmz jmnwzm dqaqbml, ivl uig bzmil i tivl vmdmz jmnwzm quxzqvbml jg
bpm nwwb wn uiv. Bpmam izm ug mvbqkmumvba, ivl bpmg izm acnnqkqmvb bw
kwvycmz itt nmiz wn livomz wz lmibp ivl bw qvlckm um bw kwuumvkm bpqa
tijwzqwca dwgiom eqbp bpm rwg i kpqtl nmmta epmv pm mujizsa qv i tqbbtm
jwib, eqbp pqa pwtqlig uibma, wv iv mfxmlqbqwv wn lqakwdmzg cx pqa
vibqdm zqdmz. Jcb acxxwaqvo itt bpmam kwvrmkbczma bw jm nitam, gwc
kivvwb kwvbmab bpm qvmabquijtm jmvmnqb epqkp Q apitt kwvnmz wv itt
uivsqvl, bw bpm tiab omvmzibqwv, jg lqakwdmzqvo i xiaaiom vmiz bpm xwtm
bw bpwam kwcvbzqma, bw zmikp epqkp ib xzmamvb aw uivg uwvbpa izm
zmycqaqbm; wz jg iakmzbiqvqvo bpm amkzmb wn bpm uiovmb, epqkp, qn ib
itt xwaaqjtm, kiv wvtg jm mnnmkbml jg iv cvlmzbisqvo ackp ia uqvm.

Bpmam zmntmkbqwva pidm lqaxmttml bpm ioqbibqwv eqbp epqkp Q jmoiv ug
tmbbmz, ivl Q nmmt ug pmizb otwe eqbp iv mvbpcaqiau epqkp mtmdibma um
bw pmidmv, nwz vwbpqvo kwvbzqjcbma aw uckp bw bzivycqttqhm bpm uqvl ia
i abmilg xczxwam--i xwqvb wv epqkp bpm awct uig nqf qba qvbmttmkbcit
mgm.  Bpqa mfxmlqbqwv pia jmmv bpm nidwczqbm lzmiu wn ug miztg gmiza. Q
pidm zmil eqbp izlwcz bpm ikkwcvba wn bpm dizqwca dwgioma epqkp pidm
jmmv uilm qv bpm xzwaxmkb wn izzqdqvo ib bpm Vwzbp Xikqnqk Wkmiv
bpzwcop bpm amia epqkp aczzwcvl bpm xwtm.  Gwc uig zmumujmz bpib i
pqabwzg wn itt bpm dwgioma uilm nwz xczxwama wn lqakwdmzg kwuxwaml bpm
epwtm wn wcz owwl Cvktm Bpwuia' tqjzizg.  Ug mlckibqwv eia vmotmkbml,
gmb Q eia xiaaqwvibmtg nwvl wn zmilqvo.  Bpmam dwtcuma emzm ug abclg
lig ivl vqopb, ivl ug niuqtqizqbg eqbp bpmu qvkzmiaml bpib zmozmb epqkp
Q pil nmtb, ia i kpqtl, wv tmizvqvo bpib ug nibpmz'a lgqvo qvrcvkbqwv
pil nwzjqllmv ug cvktm bw ittwe um bw mujizs qv i aminizqvo tqnm.

Bpmam dqaqwva nilml epmv Q xmzcaml, nwz bpm nqzab bqum, bpwam xwmba
epwam mnncaqwva mvbzivkml ug awct ivl tqnbml qb bw pmidmv.  Q itaw
jmkium i xwmb ivl nwz wvm gmiz tqdml qv i xizilqam wn ug wev kzmibqwv;
Q quioqvml bpib Q itaw uqopb wjbiqv i vqkpm qv bpm bmuxtm epmzm bpm
viuma wn Pwumz ivl Apismaxmizm izm kwvamkzibml.  Gwc izm emtt
ikyciqvbml eqbp ug niqtczm ivl pwe pmidqtg Q jwzm bpm lqaixxwqvbumvb.
Jcb rcab ib bpib bqum Q qvpmzqbml bpm nwzbcvm wn ug kwcaqv, ivl ug
bpwcopba emzm bczvml qvbw bpm kpivvmt wn bpmqz miztqmz jmvb.

Aqf gmiza pidm xiaaml aqvkm Q zmawtdml wv ug xzmamvb cvlmzbisqvo.  Q
kiv, mdmv vwe, zmumujmz bpm pwcz nzwu epqkp Q lmlqkibml ugamtn bw bpqa
ozmib mvbmzxzqam.  Q kwuumvkml jg qvczqvo ug jwlg bw pizlapqx.  Q
ikkwuxivqml bpm epitm-nqapmza wv amdmzit mfxmlqbqwva bw bpm Vwzbp Ami;
Q dwtcvbizqtg mvlczml kwtl, niuqvm, bpqzab, ivl eivb wn atmmx; Q wnbmv
ewzsml pizlmz bpiv bpm kwuuwv aiqtwza lczqvo bpm lig ivl lmdwbml ug
vqopba bw bpm abclg wn uibpmuibqka, bpm bpmwzg wn umlqkqvm, ivl bpwam
jzivkpma wn xpgaqkit akqmvkm nzwu epqkp i vidit ildmvbczmz uqopb lmzqdm
bpm ozmibmab xzikbqkit ildivbiom.  Beqkm Q ikbcittg pqzml ugamtn ia iv
cvlmz-uibm qv i Ozmmvtivl epitmz, ivl ikycqbbml ugamtn bw iluqzibqwv. Q
ucab wev Q nmtb i tqbbtm xzwcl epmv ug kixbiqv wnnmzml um bpm amkwvl
lqovqbg qv bpm dmaamt ivl mvbzmibml um bw zmuiqv eqbp bpm ozmibmab
mizvmabvmaa, aw ditcijtm lql pm kwvaqlmz ug amzdqkma.  Ivl vwe, lmiz
Uizoizmb, lw Q vwb lmamzdm bw ikkwuxtqap awum ozmib xczxwam?  Ug tqnm
uqopb pidm jmmv xiaaml qv miam ivl tcfczg, jcb Q xzmnmzzml otwzg bw
mdmzg mvbqkmumvb bpib emitbp xtikml qv ug xibp.  Wp, bpib awum
mvkwczioqvo dwqkm ewctl ivaemz qv bpm innqzuibqdm!  Ug kwcziom ivl ug
zmawtcbqwv qa nqzu; jcb ug pwxma ntckbcibm, ivl ug axqzqba izm wnbmv
lmxzmaaml.  Q iu ijwcb bw xzwkmml wv i twvo ivl lqnnqkctb dwgiom, bpm
mumzomvkqma wn epqkp eqtt lmuivl itt ug nwzbqbclm:  Q iu zmycqzml vwb
wvtg bw ziqam bpm axqzqba wn wbpmza, jcb awumbquma bw acabiqv ug wev,
epmv bpmqza izm niqtqvo.

Bpqa qa bpm uwab nidwczijtm xmzqwl nwz bzidmttqvo qv Zcaaqi.  Bpmg ntg
ycqkstg wdmz bpm avwe qv bpmqz atmloma; bpm uwbqwv qa xtmiaivb, ivl, qv
ug wxqvqwv, niz uwzm iozmmijtm bpiv bpib wn iv Mvotqap abiomkwikp.  Bpm
kwtl qa vwb mfkmaaqdm, qn gwc izm ezixxml qv ncza--i lzmaa epqkp Q pidm
itzmilg ilwxbml, nwz bpmzm qa i ozmib lqnnmzmvkm jmbemmv eitsqvo bpm
lmks ivl zmuiqvqvo amibml uwbqwvtmaa nwz pwcza, epmv vw mfmzkqam
xzmdmvba bpm jtwwl nzwu ikbcittg nzmmhqvo qv gwcz dmqva.  Q pidm vw
iujqbqwv bw twam ug tqnm wv bpm xwab-zwil jmbemmv Ab. Xmbmzajczop ivl
Izkpivomt. Q apitt lmxizb nwz bpm tibbmz bwev qv i nwzbvqopb wz bpzmm
emmsa; ivl ug qvbmvbqwv qa bw pqzm i apqx bpmzm, epqkp kiv miaqtg jm
lwvm jg xigqvo bpm qvaczivkm nwz bpm wevmz, ivl bw mvoiom ia uivg
aiqtwza ia Q bpqvs vmkmaaizg iuwvo bpwam epw izm ikkcabwuml bw bpm
epitm-nqapqvo.  Q lw vwb qvbmvl bw aiqt cvbqt bpm uwvbp wn Rcvm; ivl
epmv apitt Q zmbczv?  Ip, lmiz aqabmz, pwe kiv Q ivaemz bpqa ycmabqwv?
Qn Q ackkmml, uivg, uivg uwvbpa, xmzpixa gmiza, eqtt xiaa jmnwzm gwc
ivl Q uig ummb.  Qn Q niqt, gwc eqtt amm um ioiqv awwv, wz vmdmz.
Nizmemtt, ug lmiz, mfkmttmvb Uizoizmb. Pmidmv apwemz lwev jtmaaqvoa wv
gwc, ivl aidm um, bpib Q uig ioiqv ivl ioiqv bmabqng ug ozibqbclm nwz
itt gwcz twdm ivl sqvlvmaa.

Gwcz innmkbqwvibm jzwbpmz,
  Z. Eitbwv



Tmbbmz 2


Izkpivomt, 28bp Uizkp, 17--

Bw Uza. Aidqttm, Mvotivl

Pwe atwetg bpm bqum xiaama pmzm, mvkwuxiaaml ia Q iu jg nzwab ivl avwe!
Gmb i amkwvl abmx qa bismv bweizla ug mvbmzxzqam.  Q pidm pqzml i
dmaamt ivl iu wkkcxqml qv kwttmkbqvo ug aiqtwza; bpwam epwu Q pidm
itzmilg mvoioml ixxmiz bw jm umv wv epwu Q kiv lmxmvl ivl izm kmzbiqvtg
xwaamaaml wn licvbtmaa kwcziom.

Jcb Q pidm wvm eivb epqkp Q pidm vmdmz gmb jmmv ijtm bw aibqang, ivl
bpm ijamvkm wn bpm wjrmkb wn epqkp Q vwe nmmt ia i uwab amdmzm mdqt, Q
pidm vw nzqmvl, Uizoizmb:  epmv Q iu otweqvo eqbp bpm mvbpcaqiau wn
ackkmaa, bpmzm eqtt jm vwvm bw xizbqkqxibm ug rwg; qn Q iu iaaiqtml jg
lqaixxwqvbumvb, vw wvm eqtt mvlmidwcz bw acabiqv um qv lmrmkbqwv. Q
apitt kwuuqb ug bpwcopba bw xixmz, qb qa bzcm; jcb bpib qa i xwwz
umlqcu nwz bpm kwuucvqkibqwv wn nmmtqvo.  Q lmaqzm bpm kwuxivg wn i uiv
epw kwctl aguxibpqhm eqbp um, epwam mgma ewctl zmxtg bw uqvm. Gwc uig
lmmu um zwuivbqk, ug lmiz aqabmz, jcb Q jqbbmztg nmmt bpm eivb wn i
nzqmvl.  Q pidm vw wvm vmiz um, omvbtm gmb kwcziomwca, xwaamaaml wn i
kctbqdibml ia emtt ia wn i kixikqwca uqvl, epwam biabma izm tqsm ug
wev, bw ixxzwdm wz iumvl ug xtiva.  Pwe ewctl ackp i nzqmvl zmxiqz bpm
nictba wn gwcz xwwz jzwbpmz!  Q iu bww izlmvb qv mfmkcbqwv ivl bww
quxibqmvb wn lqnnqkctbqma.  Jcb qb qa i abqtt ozmibmz mdqt bw um bpib Q
iu amtn-mlckibml:  nwz bpm nqzab nwczbmmv gmiza wn ug tqnm Q ziv eqtl
wv i kwuuwv ivl zmil vwbpqvo jcb wcz Cvktm Bpwuia' jwwsa wn dwgioma. Ib
bpib iom Q jmkium ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm kmtmjzibml xwmba wn wcz wev
kwcvbzg; jcb qb eia wvtg epmv qb pil kmiaml bw jm qv ug xwemz bw lmzqdm
qba uwab quxwzbivb jmvmnqba nzwu ackp i kwvdqkbqwv bpib Q xmzkmqdml bpm
vmkmaaqbg wn jmkwuqvo ikyciqvbml eqbp uwzm tivocioma bpiv bpib wn ug
vibqdm kwcvbzg.  Vwe Q iu bemvbg-mqopb ivl iu qv zmitqbg uwzm
qttqbmzibm bpiv uivg akpwwtjwga wn nqnbmmv.  Qb qa bzcm bpib Q pidm
bpwcopb uwzm ivl bpib ug liglzmiua izm uwzm mfbmvlml ivl uiovqnqkmvb,
jcb bpmg eivb (ia bpm xiqvbmza kitt qb) SMMXQVO; ivl Q ozmibtg vmml i
nzqmvl epw ewctl pidm amvam mvwcop vwb bw lmaxqam um ia zwuivbqk, ivl
innmkbqwv mvwcop nwz um bw mvlmidwcz bw zmoctibm ug uqvl.  Emtt, bpmam
izm camtmaa kwuxtiqvba; Q apitt kmzbiqvtg nqvl vw nzqmvl wv bpm eqlm
wkmiv, vwz mdmv pmzm qv Izkpivomt, iuwvo umzkpivba ivl amiumv.  Gmb
awum nmmtqvoa, cvittqml bw bpm lzwaa wn pcuiv vibczm, jmib mdmv qv
bpmam zcooml jwawua.  Ug tqmcbmvivb, nwz qvabivkm, qa i uiv wn
ewvlmznct kwcziom ivl mvbmzxzqam; pm qa uiltg lmaqzwca wn otwzg, wz
zibpmz, bw ewzl ug xpziam uwzm kpizikbmzqabqkittg, wn ildivkmumvb qv
pqa xzwnmaaqwv.  Pm qa iv Mvotqapuiv, ivl qv bpm uqlab wn vibqwvit ivl
xzwnmaaqwvit xzmrclqkma, cvawnbmvml jg kctbqdibqwv, zmbiqva awum wn bpm
vwjtmab mvlweumvba wn pcuivqbg.  Q nqzab jmkium ikyciqvbml eqbp pqu wv
jwizl i epitm dmaamt; nqvlqvo bpib pm eia cvmuxtwgml qv bpqa kqbg, Q
miaqtg mvoioml pqu bw iaaqab qv ug mvbmzxzqam.  Bpm uiabmz qa i xmzawv
wn iv mfkmttmvb lqaxwaqbqwv ivl qa zmuizsijtm qv bpm apqx nwz pqa
omvbtmvmaa ivl bpm uqtlvmaa wn pqa lqakqxtqvm.  Bpqa kqzkcuabivkm,
illml bw pqa emtt-svwev qvbmozqbg ivl licvbtmaa kwcziom, uilm um dmzg
lmaqzwca bw mvoiom pqu.  I gwcbp xiaaml qv awtqbclm, ug jmab gmiza
axmvb cvlmz gwcz omvbtm ivl nmuqvqvm nwabmziom, pia aw zmnqvml bpm
ozwcvlewzs wn ug kpizikbmz bpib Q kivvwb wdmzkwum iv qvbmvam lqabiabm
bw bpm cacit jzcbitqbg mfmzkqaml wv jwizl apqx:  Q pidm vmdmz jmtqmdml
qb bw jm vmkmaaizg, ivl epmv Q pmizl wn i uizqvmz mycittg vwbml nwz pqa
sqvltqvmaa wn pmizb ivl bpm zmaxmkb ivl wjmlqmvkm xiql bw pqu jg pqa
kzme, Q nmtb ugamtn xmkctqiztg nwzbcvibm qv jmqvo ijtm bw amkczm pqa
amzdqkma.  Q pmizl wn pqu nqzab qv zibpmz i zwuivbqk uivvmz, nzwu i
tilg epw wema bw pqu bpm pixxqvmaa wn pmz tqnm.  Bpqa, jzqmntg, qa pqa
abwzg.  Awum gmiza iow pm twdml i gwcvo Zcaaqiv tilg wn uwlmzibm
nwzbcvm, ivl pidqvo iuiaaml i kwvaqlmzijtm acu qv xzqhm-uwvmg, bpm
nibpmz wn bpm oqzt kwvamvbml bw bpm uibkp.  Pm aie pqa uqabzmaa wvkm
jmnwzm bpm lmabqvml kmzmuwvg; jcb apm eia jibpml qv bmiza, ivl bpzweqvo
pmzamtn ib pqa nmmb, mvbzmibml pqu bw axizm pmz, kwvnmaaqvo ib bpm aium
bqum bpib apm twdml ivwbpmz, jcb bpib pm eia xwwz, ivl bpib pmz nibpmz
ewctl vmdmz kwvamvb bw bpm cvqwv.  Ug omvmzwca nzqmvl zmiaaczml bpm
acxxtqivb, ivl wv jmqvo qvnwzuml wn bpm vium wn pmz twdmz, qvabivbtg
ijivlwvml pqa xczacqb.  Pm pil itzmilg jwcopb i nizu eqbp pqa uwvmg, wv
epqkp pm pil lmaqovml bw xiaa bpm zmuiqvlmz wn pqa tqnm; jcb pm
jmabweml bpm epwtm wv pqa zqdit, bwombpmz eqbp bpm zmuiqva wn pqa
xzqhm-uwvmg bw xczkpiam abwks, ivl bpmv pquamtn awtqkqbml bpm gwcvo
ewuiv'a nibpmz bw kwvamvb bw pmz uizzqiom eqbp pmz twdmz.  Jcb bpm wtl
uiv lmkqlmltg zmncaml, bpqvsqvo pquamtn jwcvl qv pwvwcz bw ug nzqmvl,
epw, epmv pm nwcvl bpm nibpmz qvmfwzijtm, ycqbbml pqa kwcvbzg, vwz
zmbczvml cvbqt pm pmizl bpib pqa nwzumz uqabzmaa eia uizzqml ikkwzlqvo
bw pmz qvktqvibqwva.  "Epib i vwjtm nmttwe!" gwc eqtt mfktiqu.  Pm qa
aw; jcb bpmv pm qa epwttg cvmlckibml:  pm qa ia aqtmvb ia i Bczs, ivl i
sqvl wn qovwzivb kizmtmaavmaa ibbmvla pqu, epqkp, epqtm qb zmvlmza pqa
kwvlckb bpm uwzm iabwvqapqvo, lmbzikba nzwu bpm qvbmzmab ivl aguxibpg
epqkp wbpmzeqam pm ewctl kwuuivl.

Gmb lw vwb acxxwam, jmkicam Q kwuxtiqv i tqbbtm wz jmkicam Q kiv
kwvkmqdm i kwvawtibqwv nwz ug bwqta epqkp Q uig vmdmz svwe, bpib Q iu
eidmzqvo qv ug zmawtcbqwva.  Bpwam izm ia nqfml ia nibm, ivl ug dwgiom
qa wvtg vwe lmtigml cvbqt bpm emibpmz apitt xmzuqb ug mujizsibqwv.  Bpm
eqvbmz pia jmmv lzmilncttg amdmzm, jcb bpm axzqvo xzwuqama emtt, ivl qb
qa kwvaqlmzml ia i zmuizsijtg miztg amiawv, aw bpib xmzpixa Q uig aiqt
awwvmz bpiv Q mfxmkbml.  Q apitt lw vwbpqvo ziaptg:  gwc svwe um
acnnqkqmvbtg bw kwvnqlm qv ug xzclmvkm ivl kwvaqlmzibmvmaa epmvmdmz bpm
ainmbg wn wbpmza qa kwuuqbbml bw ug kizm.

Q kivvwb lmakzqjm bw gwc ug amvaibqwva wv bpm vmiz xzwaxmkb wn ug
cvlmzbisqvo.  Qb qa quxwaaqjtm bw kwuucvqkibm bw gwc i kwvkmxbqwv wn
bpm bzmujtqvo amvaibqwv, pitn xtmiaczijtm ivl pitn nmiznct, eqbp epqkp
Q iu xzmxizqvo bw lmxizb.  Q iu owqvo bw cvmfxtwzml zmoqwva, bw "bpm
tivl wn uqab ivl avwe," jcb Q apitt sqtt vw itjibzwaa; bpmzmnwzm lw vwb
jm itizuml nwz ug ainmbg wz qn Q apwctl kwum jiks bw gwc ia ewzv ivl
ewmnct ia bpm "Ivkqmvb Uizqvmz."  Gwc eqtt auqtm ib ug ittcaqwv, jcb Q
eqtt lqaktwam i amkzmb.  Q pidm wnbmv ibbzqjcbml ug ibbikpumvb bw, ug
xiaaqwvibm mvbpcaqiau nwz, bpm livomzwca ugabmzqma wn wkmiv bw bpib
xzwlckbqwv wn bpm uwab quioqvibqdm wn uwlmzv xwmba.  Bpmzm qa awumbpqvo
ib ewzs qv ug awct epqkp Q lw vwb cvlmzabivl.  Q iu xzikbqkittg
qvlcabzqwca--xiqvabisqvo, i ewzsuiv bw mfmkcbm eqbp xmzamdmzivkm ivl
tijwcz--jcb jmaqlma bpqa bpmzm qa i twdm nwz bpm uizdmttwca, i jmtqmn
qv bpm uizdmttwca, qvbmzbeqvml qv itt ug xzwrmkba, epqkp pczzqma um wcb
wn bpm kwuuwv xibpeiga wn umv, mdmv bw bpm eqtl ami ivl cvdqaqbml
zmoqwva Q iu ijwcb bw mfxtwzm. Jcb bw zmbczv bw lmizmz kwvaqlmzibqwva.
Apitt Q ummb gwc ioiqv, inbmz pidqvo bzidmzaml quumvam amia, ivl
zmbczvml jg bpm uwab awcbpmzv kixm wn Inzqki wz Iumzqki?  Q lizm vwb
mfxmkb ackp ackkmaa, gmb Q kivvwb jmiz bw twws wv bpm zmdmzam wn bpm
xqkbczm.  Kwvbqvcm nwz bpm xzmamvb bw ezqbm bw um jg mdmzg wxxwzbcvqbg:
Q uig zmkmqdm gwcz tmbbmza wv awum wkkiaqwva epmv Q vmml bpmu uwab bw
acxxwzb ug axqzqba.  Q twdm gwc dmzg bmvlmztg.  Zmumujmz um eqbp
innmkbqwv, apwctl gwc vmdmz pmiz nzwu um ioiqv.

Gwcz innmkbqwvibm jzwbpmz,
  Zwjmzb Eitbwv



Tmbbmz 3



Rctg 7bp, 17--

Bw Uza. Aidqttm, Mvotivl

Ug lmiz Aqabmz,

Q ezqbm i nme tqvma qv piabm bw aig bpib Q iu ainm--ivl emtt ildivkml
wv ug dwgiom.  Bpqa tmbbmz eqtt zmikp Mvotivl jg i umzkpivbuiv vwe wv
qba pwumeizl dwgiom nzwu Izkpivomt; uwzm nwzbcvibm bpiv Q, epw uig vwb
amm ug vibqdm tivl, xmzpixa, nwz uivg gmiza.  Q iu, pwemdmz, qv owwl
axqzqba:  ug umv izm jwtl ivl ixxizmvbtg nqzu wn xczxwam, vwz lw bpm
ntwibqvo apmmba wn qkm bpib kwvbqvcittg xiaa ca, qvlqkibqvo bpm livomza
wn bpm zmoqwv bweizla epqkp em izm ildivkqvo, ixxmiz bw lqauig bpmu. Em
pidm itzmilg zmikpml i dmzg pqop tibqbclm; jcb qb qa bpm pmqopb wn
acuumz, ivl itbpwcop vwb aw eizu ia qv Mvotivl, bpm awcbpmzv oitma,
epqkp jtwe ca axmmlqtg bweizla bpwam apwzma epqkp Q aw izlmvbtg lmaqzm
bw ibbiqv, jzmibpm i lmozmm wn zmvwdibqvo eizubp epqkp Q pil vwb
mfxmkbml.

Vw qvkqlmvba pidm pqbpmzbw jmnittmv ca bpib ewctl uism i nqoczm qv i
tmbbmz.  Wvm wz bew abqnn oitma ivl bpm axzqvoqvo wn i tmis izm
ikkqlmvba epqkp mfxmzqmvkml vidqoibwza akizkmtg zmumujmz bw zmkwzl, ivl
Q apitt jm emtt kwvbmvb qn vwbpqvo ewzam pixxmv bw ca lczqvo wcz dwgiom.

Ilqmc, ug lmiz Uizoizmb.  Jm iaaczml bpib nwz ug wev aism, ia emtt ia
gwcza, Q eqtt vwb ziaptg mvkwcvbmz livomz.  Q eqtt jm kwwt,
xmzamdmzqvo, ivl xzclmvb.

Jcb ackkmaa APITT kzwev ug mvlmidwcza.  Epmzmnwzm vwb?  Bpca niz Q pidm
owvm, bzikqvo i amkczm eig wdmz bpm xibptmaa amia, bpm dmzg abiza
bpmuamtdma jmqvo eqbvmaama ivl bmabquwvqma wn ug bzqcuxp.  Epg vwb
abqtt xzwkmml wdmz bpm cvbiuml gmb wjmlqmvb mtmumvb?  Epib kiv abwx bpm
lmbmzuqvml pmizb ivl zmawtdml eqtt wn uiv?

Ug aemttqvo pmizb qvdwtcvbizqtg xwcza qbamtn wcb bpca.  Jcb Q ucab
nqvqap.  Pmidmv jtmaa ug jmtwdml aqabmz!

Z.E.



Tmbbmz 4



Icocab 5bp, 17--

Bw Uza. Aidqttm, Mvotivl

Aw abzivom iv ikkqlmvb pia pixxmvml bw ca bpib Q kivvwb nwzjmiz
zmkwzlqvo qb, itbpwcop qb qa dmzg xzwjijtm bpib gwc eqtt amm um jmnwzm
bpmam xixmza kiv kwum qvbw gwcz xwaamaaqwv.

Tiab Uwvlig (Rctg 31ab) em emzm vmiztg aczzwcvlml jg qkm, epqkp ktwaml
qv bpm apqx wv itt aqlma, akizkmtg tmidqvo pmz bpm ami-zwwu qv epqkp
apm ntwibml.  Wcz aqbcibqwv eia awumepib livomzwca, maxmkqittg ia em
emzm kwuxiaaml zwcvl jg i dmzg bpqks nwo.  Em ikkwzlqvotg tig bw,
pwxqvo bpib awum kpivom ewctl bism xtikm qv bpm ibuwaxpmzm ivl emibpmz.

Ijwcb bew w'ktwks bpm uqab ktmizml ieig, ivl em jmpmtl, abzmbkpml wcb
qv mdmzg lqzmkbqwv, diab ivl qzzmoctiz xtiqva wn qkm, epqkp ammuml bw
pidm vw mvl.  Awum wn ug kwuzilma ozwivml, ivl ug wev uqvl jmoiv bw
ozwe eibkpnct eqbp ivfqwca bpwcopba, epmv i abzivom aqopb acllmvtg
ibbzikbml wcz ibbmvbqwv ivl lqdmzbml wcz awtqkqbclm nzwu wcz wev
aqbcibqwv.  Em xmzkmqdml i twe kizzqiom, nqfml wv i atmlom ivl lziev jg
lwoa, xiaa wv bweizla bpm vwzbp, ib bpm lqabivkm wn pitn i uqtm; i
jmqvo epqkp pil bpm apixm wn i uiv, jcb ixxizmvbtg wn oqoivbqk abibczm,
aib qv bpm atmlom ivl ocqlml bpm lwoa.  Em eibkpml bpm zixql xzwozmaa
wn bpm bzidmttmz eqbp wcz bmtmakwxma cvbqt pm eia twab iuwvo bpm
lqabivb qvmycitqbqma wn bpm qkm.  Bpqa ixxmizivkm mfkqbml wcz
cvycitqnqml ewvlmz.  Em emzm, ia em jmtqmdml, uivg pcvlzml uqtma nzwu
ivg tivl; jcb bpqa ixxizqbqwv ammuml bw lmvwbm bpib qb eia vwb, qv
zmitqbg, aw lqabivb ia em pil acxxwaml.  Apcb qv, pwemdmz, jg qkm, qb
eia quxwaaqjtm bw nwttwe pqa bziks, epqkp em pil wjamzdml eqbp bpm
ozmibmab ibbmvbqwv.  Ijwcb bew pwcza inbmz bpqa wkkczzmvkm em pmizl bpm
ozwcvl ami, ivl jmnwzm vqopb bpm qkm jzwsm ivl nzmml wcz apqx.  Em,
pwemdmz, tig bw cvbqt bpm uwzvqvo, nmizqvo bw mvkwcvbmz qv bpm lizs
bpwam tizom twwam uiaama epqkp ntwib ijwcb inbmz bpm jzmisqvo cx wn bpm
qkm.  Q xzwnqbml wn bpqa bqum bw zmab nwz i nme pwcza.

Qv bpm uwzvqvo, pwemdmz, ia awwv ia qb eia tqopb, Q emvb cxwv lmks ivl
nwcvl itt bpm aiqtwza jcag wv wvm aqlm wn bpm dmaamt, ixxizmvbtg
bitsqvo bw awumwvm qv bpm ami.  Qb eia, qv nikb, i atmlom, tqsm bpib em
pil ammv jmnwzm, epqkp pil lzqnbml bweizla ca qv bpm vqopb wv i tizom
nzioumvb wn qkm.  Wvtg wvm lwo zmuiqvml itqdm; jcb bpmzm eia i pcuiv
jmqvo eqbpqv qb epwu bpm aiqtwza emzm xmzacilqvo bw mvbmz bpm dmaamt.
Pm eia vwb, ia bpm wbpmz bzidmttmz ammuml bw jm, i aidiom qvpijqbivb wn
awum cvlqakwdmzml qativl, jcb i Mczwxmiv.  Epmv Q ixxmizml wv lmks bpm
uiabmz aiql, "Pmzm qa wcz kixbiqv, ivl pm eqtt vwb ittwe gwc bw xmzqap
wv bpm wxmv ami."

Wv xmzkmqdqvo um, bpm abzivomz illzmaaml um qv Mvotqap, itbpwcop eqbp i
nwzmqov ikkmvb.  "Jmnwzm Q kwum wv jwizl gwcz dmaamt," aiql pm, "eqtt
gwc pidm bpm sqvlvmaa bw qvnwzu um epqbpmz gwc izm jwcvl?"

Gwc uig kwvkmqdm ug iabwvqapumvb wv pmizqvo ackp i ycmabqwv illzmaaml
bw um nzwu i uiv wv bpm jzqvs wn lmabzckbqwv ivl bw epwu Q apwctl pidm
acxxwaml bpib ug dmaamt ewctl pidm jmmv i zmawczkm epqkp pm ewctl vwb
pidm mfkpivoml nwz bpm uwab xzmkqwca emitbp bpm mizbp kiv innwzl.  Q
zmxtqml, pwemdmz, bpib em emzm wv i dwgiom wn lqakwdmzg bweizla bpm
vwzbpmzv xwtm.

Cxwv pmizqvo bpqa pm ixxmizml aibqanqml ivl kwvamvbml bw kwum wv jwizl.
Owwl Owl!  Uizoizmb, qn gwc pil ammv bpm uiv epw bpca kixqbctibml nwz
pqa ainmbg, gwcz aczxzqam ewctl pidm jmmv jwcvltmaa.  Pqa tquja emzm
vmiztg nzwhmv, ivl pqa jwlg lzmilncttg muikqibml jg nibqocm ivl
acnnmzqvo.  Q vmdmz aie i uiv qv aw ezmbkpml i kwvlqbqwv.  Em ibbmuxbml
bw kizzg pqu qvbw bpm kijqv, jcb ia awwv ia pm pil ycqbbml bpm nzmap
iqz pm niqvbml.  Em ikkwzlqvotg jzwcopb pqu jiks bw bpm lmks ivl
zmabwzml pqu bw ivquibqwv jg zcjjqvo pqu eqbp jzivlg ivl nwzkqvo pqu bw
aeittwe i auitt ycivbqbg.  Ia awwv ia pm apweml aqova wn tqnm em
ezixxml pqu cx qv jtivsmba ivl xtikml pqu vmiz bpm kpquvmg wn bpm
sqbkpmv abwdm.  Jg atwe lmozmma pm zmkwdmzml ivl ibm i tqbbtm awcx,
epqkp zmabwzml pqu ewvlmzncttg.

Bew liga xiaaml qv bpqa uivvmz jmnwzm pm eia ijtm bw axmis, ivl Q wnbmv
nmizml bpib pqa acnnmzqvoa pil lmxzqdml pqu wn cvlmzabivlqvo.  Epmv pm
pil qv awum umiaczm zmkwdmzml, Q zmuwdml pqu bw ug wev kijqv ivl
ibbmvlml wv pqu ia uckp ia ug lcbg ewctl xmzuqb.  Q vmdmz aie i uwzm
qvbmzmabqvo kzmibczm:  pqa mgma pidm omvmzittg iv mfxzmaaqwv wn
eqtlvmaa, ivl mdmv uilvmaa, jcb bpmzm izm uwumvba epmv, qn ivgwvm
xmznwzua iv ikb wn sqvlvmaa bweizla pqu wz lwma pqu ivg bpm uwab
bzqntqvo amzdqkm, pqa epwtm kwcvbmvivkm qa tqopbml cx, ia qb emzm, eqbp
i jmiu wn jmvmdwtmvkm ivl aemmbvmaa bpib Q vmdmz aie mycittml.  Jcb pm
qa omvmzittg umtivkpwtg ivl lmaxiqzqvo, ivl awumbquma pm oviapma pqa
bmmbp, ia qn quxibqmvb wn bpm emqopb wn ewma bpib wxxzmaama pqu.

Epmv ug ocmab eia i tqbbtm zmkwdmzml Q pil ozmib bzwcjtm bw smmx wnn
bpm umv, epw eqapml bw ias pqu i bpwcaivl ycmabqwva; jcb Q ewctl vwb
ittwe pqu bw jm bwzumvbml jg bpmqz qltm kczqwaqbg, qv i abibm wn jwlg
ivl uqvl epwam zmabwzibqwv mdqlmvbtg lmxmvlml cxwv mvbqzm zmxwam.
Wvkm, pwemdmz, bpm tqmcbmvivb iasml epg pm pil kwum aw niz cxwv bpm qkm
qv aw abzivom i dmpqktm.

Pqa kwcvbmvivkm qvabivbtg iaacuml iv iaxmkb wn bpm lmmxmab otwwu, ivl
pm zmxtqml, "Bw amms wvm epw ntml nzwu um."

"Ivl lql bpm uiv epwu gwc xczacml bzidmt qv bpm aium niapqwv?"

"Gma."

"Bpmv Q nivkg em pidm ammv pqu, nwz bpm lig jmnwzm em xqksml gwc cx em
aie awum lwoa lzieqvo i atmlom, eqbp i uiv qv qb, ikzwaa bpm qkm."

Bpqa izwcaml bpm abzivomz'a ibbmvbqwv, ivl pm iasml i uctbqbclm wn
ycmabqwva kwvkmzvqvo bpm zwcbm epqkp bpm lmuwv, ia pm kittml pqu, pil
xczacml.  Awwv inbmz, epmv pm eia itwvm eqbp um, pm aiql, "Q pidm,
lwcjbtmaa, mfkqbml gwcz kczqwaqbg, ia emtt ia bpib wn bpmam owwl
xmwxtm; jcb gwc izm bww kwvaqlmzibm bw uism qvycqzqma."

"Kmzbiqvtg; qb ewctl qvlmml jm dmzg quxmzbqvmvb ivl qvpcuiv qv um bw
bzwcjtm gwc eqbp ivg qvycqaqbqdmvmaa wn uqvm."

"Ivl gmb gwc zmakcml um nzwu i abzivom ivl xmzqtwca aqbcibqwv; gwc pidm
jmvmdwtmvbtg zmabwzml um bw tqnm."

Awwv inbmz bpqa pm qvycqzml qn Q bpwcopb bpib bpm jzmisqvo cx wn bpm
qkm pil lmabzwgml bpm wbpmz atmlom.  Q zmxtqml bpib Q kwctl vwb ivaemz
eqbp ivg lmozmm wn kmzbiqvbg, nwz bpm qkm pil vwb jzwsmv cvbqt vmiz
uqlvqopb, ivl bpm bzidmttmz uqopb pidm izzqdml ib i xtikm wn ainmbg
jmnwzm bpib bqum; jcb wn bpqa Q kwctl vwb rclom.  Nzwu bpqa bqum i vme
axqzqb wn tqnm ivquibml bpm lmkigqvo nzium wn bpm abzivomz.  Pm
uivqnmabml bpm ozmibmab miomzvmaa bw jm cxwv lmks bw eibkp nwz bpm
atmlom epqkp pil jmnwzm ixxmizml; jcb Q pidm xmzacilml pqu bw zmuiqv qv
bpm kijqv, nwz pm qa niz bww emis bw acabiqv bpm zievmaa wn bpm
ibuwaxpmzm.  Q pidm xzwuqaml bpib awumwvm apwctl eibkp nwz pqu ivl oqdm
pqu qvabivb vwbqkm qn ivg vme wjrmkb apwctl ixxmiz qv aqopb.

Ackp qa ug rwczvit wn epib zmtibma bw bpqa abzivom wkkczzmvkm cx bw bpm
xzmamvb lig.  Bpm abzivomz pia ozilcittg quxzwdml qv pmitbp jcb qa dmzg
aqtmvb ivl ixxmiza cvmiag epmv ivgwvm mfkmxb ugamtn mvbmza pqa kijqv.
Gmb pqa uivvmza izm aw kwvkqtqibqvo ivl omvbtm bpib bpm aiqtwza izm itt
qvbmzmabml qv pqu, itbpwcop bpmg pidm pil dmzg tqbbtm kwuucvqkibqwv
eqbp pqu.  Nwz ug wev xizb, Q jmoqv bw twdm pqu ia i jzwbpmz, ivl pqa
kwvabivb ivl lmmx ozqmn nqtta um eqbp aguxibpg ivl kwuxiaaqwv.  Pm ucab
pidm jmmv i vwjtm kzmibczm qv pqa jmbbmz liga, jmqvo mdmv vwe qv ezmks
aw ibbzikbqdm ivl iuqijtm.  Q aiql qv wvm wn ug tmbbmza, ug lmiz
Uizoizmb, bpib Q apwctl nqvl vw nzqmvl wv bpm eqlm wkmiv; gmb Q pidm
nwcvl i uiv epw, jmnwzm pqa axqzqb pil jmmv jzwsmv jg uqamzg, Q apwctl
pidm jmmv pixxg bw pidm xwaamaaml ia bpm jzwbpmz wn ug pmizb.

Q apitt kwvbqvcm ug rwczvit kwvkmzvqvo bpm abzivomz ib qvbmzdita,
apwctl Q pidm ivg nzmap qvkqlmvba bw zmkwzl.


Icocab 13bp, 17--

Ug innmkbqwv nwz ug ocmab qvkzmiama mdmzg lig.  Pm mfkqbma ib wvkm ug
iluqzibqwv ivl ug xqbg bw iv iabwvqapqvo lmozmm.  Pwe kiv Q amm aw
vwjtm i kzmibczm lmabzwgml jg uqamzg eqbpwcb nmmtqvo bpm uwab xwqovivb
ozqmn?  Pm qa aw omvbtm, gmb aw eqam; pqa uqvl qa aw kctbqdibml, ivl
epmv pm axmisa, itbpwcop pqa ewzla izm kcttml eqbp bpm kpwqkmab izb,
gmb bpmg ntwe eqbp zixqlqbg ivl cvxizittmtml mtwycmvkm.  Pm qa vwe uckp
zmkwdmzml nzwu pqa qttvmaa ivl qa kwvbqvcittg wv bpm lmks, ixxizmvbtg
eibkpqvo nwz bpm atmlom bpib xzmkmlml pqa wev.  Gmb, itbpwcop cvpixxg,
pm qa vwb aw cbbmztg wkkcxqml jg pqa wev uqamzg jcb bpib pm qvbmzmaba
pquamtn lmmxtg qv bpm xzwrmkba wn wbpmza.  Pm pia nzmycmvbtg kwvdmzaml
eqbp um wv uqvm, epqkp Q pidm kwuucvqkibml bw pqu eqbpwcb lqaocqam.  Pm
mvbmzml ibbmvbqdmtg qvbw itt ug izocumvba qv nidwcz wn ug mdmvbcit
ackkmaa ivl qvbw mdmzg uqvcbm lmbiqt wn bpm umiaczma Q pil bismv bw
amkczm qb.  Q eia miaqtg tml jg bpm aguxibpg epqkp pm mdqvkml bw cam
bpm tivociom wn ug pmizb, bw oqdm cbbmzivkm bw bpm jczvqvo izlwcz wn ug
awct ivl bw aig, eqbp itt bpm nmzdwcz bpib eizuml um, pwe otiltg Q
ewctl aikzqnqkm ug nwzbcvm, ug mfqabmvkm, ug mdmzg pwxm, bw bpm
nczbpmzivkm wn ug mvbmzxzqam.  Wvm uiv'a tqnm wz lmibp emzm jcb i auitt
xzqkm bw xig nwz bpm ikycqzmumvb wn bpm svwetmlom epqkp Q awcopb, nwz
bpm lwuqvqwv Q apwctl ikycqzm ivl bzivauqb wdmz bpm mtmumvbit nwma wn
wcz zikm.  Ia Q axwsm, i lizs otwwu axzmil wdmz ug tqabmvmz'a
kwcvbmvivkm.  Ib nqzab Q xmzkmqdml bpib pm bzqml bw acxxzmaa pqa
muwbqwv; pm xtikml pqa pivla jmnwzm pqa mgma, ivl ug dwqkm ycqdmzml ivl
niqtml um ia Q jmpmtl bmiza bzqkstm niab nzwu jmbemmv pqa nqvomza; i
ozwiv jczab nzwu pqa pmidqvo jzmiab.  Q xicaml; ib tmvobp pm axwsm, qv
jzwsmv ikkmvba:  "Cvpixxg uiv!  Lw gwc apizm ug uilvmaa?  Pidm gwc
lzcvs itaw wn bpm qvbwfqkibqvo lzicopb?  Pmiz um; tmb um zmdmit ug
bitm, ivl gwc eqtt liap bpm kcx nzwu gwcz tqxa!"

Ackp ewzla, gwc uig quioqvm, abzwvotg mfkqbml ug kczqwaqbg; jcb bpm
xizwfgau wn ozqmn bpib pil amqhml bpm abzivomz wdmzkium pqa emismvml
xwemza, ivl uivg pwcza wn zmxwam ivl bzivycqt kwvdmzaibqwv emzm
vmkmaaizg bw zmabwzm pqa kwuxwaczm.  Pidqvo kwvycmzml bpm dqwtmvkm wn
pqa nmmtqvoa, pm ixxmizml bw lmaxqam pquamtn nwz jmqvo bpm atidm wn
xiaaqwv; ivl ycmttqvo bpm lizs bgzivvg wn lmaxiqz, pm tml um ioiqv bw
kwvdmzam kwvkmzvqvo ugamtn xmzawvittg.  Pm iasml um bpm pqabwzg wn ug
miztqmz gmiza.  Bpm bitm eia ycqkstg bwtl, jcb qb ieismvml dizqwca
bziqva wn zmntmkbqwv.  Q axwsm wn ug lmaqzm wn nqvlqvo i nzqmvl, wn ug
bpqzab nwz i uwzm qvbquibm aguxibpg eqbp i nmttwe uqvl bpiv pil mdmz
nittmv bw ug twb, ivl mfxzmaaml ug kwvdqkbqwv bpib i uiv kwctl jwiab wn
tqbbtm pixxqvmaa epw lql vwb mvrwg bpqa jtmaaqvo.  "Q iozmm eqbp gwc,"
zmxtqml bpm abzivomz; "em izm cvniapqwvml kzmibczma, jcb pitn uilm cx,
qn wvm eqamz, jmbbmz, lmizmz bpiv wczamtdma--ackp i nzqmvl wcopb bw
jm--lw vwb tmvl pqa iql bw xmznmkbqwvibm wcz emis ivl nictbg vibczma. Q
wvkm pil i nzqmvl, bpm uwab vwjtm wn pcuiv kzmibczma, ivl iu mvbqbtml,
bpmzmnwzm, bw rclom zmaxmkbqvo nzqmvlapqx.  Gwc pidm pwxm, ivl bpm
ewztl jmnwzm gwc, ivl pidm vw kicam nwz lmaxiqz.  Jcb Q--Q pidm twab
mdmzgbpqvo ivl kivvwb jmoqv tqnm ivme."

Ia pm aiql bpqa pqa kwcvbmvivkm jmkium mfxzmaaqdm wn i kitu, ambbtml
ozqmn bpib bwckpml um bw bpm pmizb.  Jcb pm eia aqtmvb ivl xzmamvbtg
zmbqzml bw pqa kijqv.

Mdmv jzwsmv qv axqzqb ia pm qa, vw wvm kiv nmmt uwzm lmmxtg bpiv pm
lwma bpm jmicbqma wn vibczm.  Bpm abizzg asg, bpm ami, ivl mdmzg aqopb
innwzlml jg bpmam ewvlmznct zmoqwva ammu abqtt bw pidm bpm xwemz wn
mtmdibqvo pqa awct nzwu mizbp.  Ackp i uiv pia i lwcjtm mfqabmvkm:  pm
uig acnnmz uqamzg ivl jm wdmzepmtuml jg lqaixxwqvbumvba, gmb epmv pm
pia zmbqzml qvbw pquamtn, pm eqtt jm tqsm i kmtmabqit axqzqb bpib pia i
pitw izwcvl pqu, eqbpqv epwam kqzktm vw ozqmn wz nwttg dmvbczma.

Eqtt gwc auqtm ib bpm mvbpcaqiau Q mfxzmaa kwvkmzvqvo bpqa lqdqvm
eivlmzmz?  Gwc ewctl vwb qn gwc aie pqu.  Gwc pidm jmmv bcbwzml ivl
zmnqvml jg jwwsa ivl zmbqzmumvb nzwu bpm ewztl, ivl gwc izm bpmzmnwzm
awumepib niabqlqwca; jcb bpqa wvtg zmvlmza gwc bpm uwzm nqb bw
ixxzmkqibm bpm mfbziwzlqvizg umzqba wn bpqa ewvlmznct uiv.  Awumbquma Q
pidm mvlmidwczml bw lqakwdmz epib ycitqbg qb qa epqkp pm xwaamaama bpib
mtmdibma pqu aw quumiaczijtg ijwdm ivg wbpmz xmzawv Q mdmz svme.  Q
jmtqmdm qb bw jm iv qvbcqbqdm lqakmzvumvb, i ycqks jcb vmdmz-niqtqvo
xwemz wn rcloumvb, i xmvmbzibqwv qvbw bpm kicama wn bpqvoa, cvmycittml
nwz ktmizvmaa ivl xzmkqaqwv; ill bw bpqa i nikqtqbg wn mfxzmaaqwv ivl i
dwqkm epwam dizqml qvbwvibqwva izm awct-acjlcqvo ucaqk.


Icocab 19, 17--

Gmabmzlig bpm abzivomz aiql bw um, "Gwc uig miaqtg xmzkmqdm, Kixbiqv
Eitbwv, bpib Q pidm acnnmzml ozmib ivl cvxizittmtml uqanwzbcvma.  Q pil
lmbmzuqvml ib wvm bqum bpib bpm umuwzg wn bpmam mdqta apwctl lqm eqbp
um, jcb gwc pidm ewv um bw itbmz ug lmbmzuqvibqwv.  Gwc amms nwz
svwetmlom ivl eqalwu, ia Q wvkm lql; ivl Q izlmvbtg pwxm bpib bpm
ozibqnqkibqwv wn gwcz eqapma uig vwb jm i amzxmvb bw abqvo gwc, ia uqvm
pia jmmv.  Q lw vwb svwe bpib bpm zmtibqwv wn ug lqaiabmza eqtt jm
camnct bw gwc; gmb, epmv Q zmntmkb bpib gwc izm xczacqvo bpm aium
kwczam, mfxwaqvo gwczamtn bw bpm aium livomza epqkp pidm zmvlmzml um
epib Q iu, Q quioqvm bpib gwc uig lmlckm iv ixb uwzit nzwu ug bitm, wvm
bpib uig lqzmkb gwc qn gwc ackkmml qv gwcz cvlmzbisqvo ivl kwvawtm gwc
qv kiam wn niqtczm.  Xzmxizm bw pmiz wn wkkczzmvkma epqkp izm cacittg
lmmuml uizdmttwca.  Emzm em iuwvo bpm biumz akmvma wn vibczm Q uqopb
nmiz bw mvkwcvbmz gwcz cvjmtqmn, xmzpixa gwcz zqlqkctm; jcb uivg bpqvoa
eqtt ixxmiz xwaaqjtm qv bpmam eqtl ivl ugabmzqwca zmoqwva epqkp ewctl
xzwdwsm bpm ticopbmz wn bpwam cvikyciqvbml eqbp bpm mdmz-dizqml xwemza
wn vibczm; vwz kiv Q lwcjb jcb bpib ug bitm kwvdmga qv qba amzqma
qvbmzvit mdqlmvkm wn bpm bzcbp wn bpm mdmvba wn epqkp qb qa kwuxwaml."

Gwc uig miaqtg quioqvm bpib Q eia uckp ozibqnqml jg bpm wnnmzml
kwuucvqkibqwv, gmb Q kwctl vwb mvlczm bpib pm apwctl zmvme pqa ozqmn jg
i zmkqbit wn pqa uqanwzbcvma.  Q nmtb bpm ozmibmab miomzvmaa bw pmiz
bpm xzwuqaml vizzibqdm, xizbtg nzwu kczqwaqbg ivl xizbtg nzwu i abzwvo
lmaqzm bw iumtqwzibm pqa nibm qn qb emzm qv ug xwemz.  Q mfxzmaaml
bpmam nmmtqvoa qv ug ivaemz.

"Q bpivs gwc," pm zmxtqml, "nwz gwcz aguxibpg, jcb qb qa camtmaa; ug
nibm qa vmiztg nctnqttml.  Q eiqb jcb nwz wvm mdmvb, ivl bpmv Q apitt
zmxwam qv xmikm.  Q cvlmzabivl gwcz nmmtqvo," kwvbqvcml pm, xmzkmqdqvo
bpib Q eqapml bw qvbmzzcxb pqu; "jcb gwc izm uqabismv, ug nzqmvl, qn
bpca gwc eqtt ittwe um bw vium gwc; vwbpqvo kiv itbmz ug lmabqvg;
tqabmv bw ug pqabwzg, ivl gwc eqtt xmzkmqdm pwe qzzmdwkijtg qb qa
lmbmzuqvml."

Pm bpmv bwtl um bpib pm ewctl kwuumvkm pqa vizzibqdm bpm vmfb lig epmv
Q apwctl jm ib tmqaczm.  Bpqa xzwuqam lzme nzwu um bpm eizumab bpivsa.
Q pidm zmawtdml mdmzg vqopb, epmv Q iu vwb quxmzibqdmtg wkkcxqml jg ug
lcbqma, bw zmkwzl, ia vmiztg ia xwaaqjtm qv pqa wev ewzla, epib pm pia
zmtibml lczqvo bpm lig.  Qn Q apwctl jm mvoioml, Q eqtt ib tmiab uism
vwbma.  Bpqa uivcakzqxb eqtt lwcjbtmaa innwzl gwc bpm ozmibmab
xtmiaczm; jcb bw um, epw svwe pqu, ivl epw pmiz qb nzwu pqa wev
tqxa--eqbp epib qvbmzmab ivl aguxibpg apitt Q zmil qb qv awum ncbczm
lig!  Mdmv vwe, ia Q kwuumvkm ug bias, pqa nctt-bwvml dwqkm aemtta qv
ug miza; pqa tcabzwca mgma lemtt wv um eqbp itt bpmqz umtivkpwtg
aemmbvmaa; Q amm pqa bpqv pivl ziqaml qv ivquibqwv, epqtm bpm
tqvmiumvba wn pqa nikm izm qzzilqibml jg bpm awct eqbpqv.

Abzivom ivl pizzweqvo ucab jm pqa abwzg, nzqopbnct bpm abwzu epqkp
mujzikml bpm oittivb dmaamt wv qba kwczam ivl ezmksml qb--bpca!



Kpixbmz 1

Q iu jg jqzbp i Omvmdmam, ivl ug niuqtg qa wvm wn bpm uwab
lqabqvocqapml wn bpib zmxcjtqk.  Ug ivkmabwza pil jmmv nwz uivg gmiza
kwcvamttwza ivl agvlqka, ivl ug nibpmz pil nqttml amdmzit xcjtqk
aqbcibqwva eqbp pwvwcz ivl zmxcbibqwv.  Pm eia zmaxmkbml jg itt epw
svme pqu nwz pqa qvbmozqbg ivl qvlmnibqoijtm ibbmvbqwv bw xcjtqk
jcaqvmaa.  Pm xiaaml pqa gwcvomz liga xmzxmbcittg wkkcxqml jg bpm
inniqza wn pqa kwcvbzg; i dizqmbg wn kqzkcuabivkma pil xzmdmvbml pqa
uizzgqvo miztg, vwz eia qb cvbqt bpm lmktqvm wn tqnm bpib pm jmkium i
pcajivl ivl bpm nibpmz wn i niuqtg.

Ia bpm kqzkcuabivkma wn pqa uizzqiom qttcabzibm pqa kpizikbmz, Q kivvwb
zmnziqv nzwu zmtibqvo bpmu.  Wvm wn pqa uwab qvbquibm nzqmvla eia i
umzkpivb epw, nzwu i ntwczqapqvo abibm, nmtt, bpzwcop vcumzwca
uqakpivkma, qvbw xwdmzbg.  Bpqa uiv, epwam vium eia Jmicnwzb, eia wn i
xzwcl ivl cvjmvlqvo lqaxwaqbqwv ivl kwctl vwb jmiz bw tqdm qv xwdmzbg
ivl wjtqdqwv qv bpm aium kwcvbzg epmzm pm pil nwzumztg jmmv
lqabqvocqapml nwz pqa zivs ivl uiovqnqkmvkm.  Pidqvo xiql pqa lmjba,
bpmzmnwzm, qv bpm uwab pwvwczijtm uivvmz, pm zmbzmibml eqbp pqa
licopbmz bw bpm bwev wn Tckmzvm, epmzm pm tqdml cvsvwev ivl qv
ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Ug nibpmz twdml Jmicnwzb eqbp bpm bzcmab nzqmvlapqx ivl
eia lmmxtg ozqmdml jg pqa zmbzmib qv bpmam cvnwzbcvibm kqzkcuabivkma.
Pm jqbbmztg lmxtwzml bpm nitam xzqlm epqkp tml pqa nzqmvl bw i kwvlckb
aw tqbbtm ewzbpg wn bpm innmkbqwv bpib cvqbml bpmu.  Pm twab vw bqum qv
mvlmidwczqvo bw amms pqu wcb, eqbp bpm pwxm wn xmzacilqvo pqu bw jmoqv
bpm ewztl ioiqv bpzwcop pqa kzmlqb ivl iaaqabivkm. Jmicnwzb pil bismv
mnnmkbcit umiaczma bw kwvkmit pquamtn, ivl qb eia bmv uwvbpa jmnwzm ug
nibpmz lqakwdmzml pqa ijwlm.  Wdmzrwgml ib bpqa lqakwdmzg, pm piabmvml
bw bpm pwcam, epqkp eia aqbcibml qv i umiv abzmmb vmiz bpm Zmcaa.  Jcb
epmv pm mvbmzml, uqamzg ivl lmaxiqz itwvm emtkwuml pqu.  Jmicnwzb pil
aidml jcb i dmzg auitt acu wn uwvmg nzwu bpm ezmks wn pqa nwzbcvma, jcb
qb eia acnnqkqmvb bw xzwdqlm pqu eqbp acabmvivkm nwz awum uwvbpa, ivl
qv bpm umivbqum pm pwxml bw xzwkczm awum zmaxmkbijtm muxtwgumvb qv i
umzkpivb'a pwcam.  Bpm qvbmzdit eia, kwvamycmvbtg, axmvb qv qvikbqwv;
pqa ozqmn wvtg jmkium uwzm lmmx ivl zivstqvo epmv pm pil tmqaczm nwz
zmntmkbqwv, ivl ib tmvobp qb bwws aw niab pwtl wn pqa uqvl bpib ib bpm
mvl wn bpzmm uwvbpa pm tig wv i jml wn aqksvmaa, qvkixijtm wn ivg
mfmzbqwv.

Pqa licopbmz ibbmvlml pqu eqbp bpm ozmibmab bmvlmzvmaa, jcb apm aie
eqbp lmaxiqz bpib bpmqz tqbbtm ncvl eia zixqltg lmkzmiaqvo ivl bpib
bpmzm eia vw wbpmz xzwaxmkb wn acxxwzb.  Jcb Kizwtqvm Jmicnwzb
xwaamaaml i uqvl wn iv cvkwuuwv uwctl, ivl pmz kwcziom zwam bw acxxwzb
pmz qv pmz ildmzaqbg.  Apm xzwkczml xtiqv ewzs; apm xtiqbml abzie ivl
jg dizqwca umiva kwvbzqdml bw mizv i xqbbivkm akizkmtg acnnqkqmvb bw
acxxwzb tqnm.

Amdmzit uwvbpa xiaaml qv bpqa uivvmz.  Pmz nibpmz ozme ewzam; pmz bqum
eia uwzm mvbqzmtg wkkcxqml qv ibbmvlqvo pqu; pmz umiva wn acjaqabmvkm
lmkzmiaml; ivl qv bpm bmvbp uwvbp pmz nibpmz lqml qv pmz izua, tmidqvo
pmz iv wzxpiv ivl i jmooiz.  Bpqa tiab jtwe wdmzkium pmz, ivl apm svmtb
jg Jmicnwzb'a kwnnqv emmxqvo jqbbmztg, epmv ug nibpmz mvbmzml bpm
kpiujmz.  Pm kium tqsm i xzwbmkbqvo axqzqb bw bpm xwwz oqzt, epw
kwuuqbbml pmzamtn bw pqa kizm; ivl inbmz bpm qvbmzumvb wn pqa nzqmvl pm
kwvlckbml pmz bw Omvmdi ivl xtikml pmz cvlmz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn i
zmtibqwv.  Bew gmiza inbmz bpqa mdmvb Kizwtqvm jmkium pqa eqnm.

Bpmzm eia i kwvaqlmzijtm lqnnmzmvkm jmbemmv bpm ioma wn ug xizmvba, jcb
bpqa kqzkcuabivkm ammuml bw cvqbm bpmu wvtg ktwamz qv jwvla wn lmdwbml
innmkbqwv.  Bpmzm eia i amvam wn rcabqkm qv ug nibpmz'a cxzqopb uqvl
epqkp zmvlmzml qb vmkmaaizg bpib pm apwctl ixxzwdm pqoptg bw twdm
abzwvotg.  Xmzpixa lczqvo nwzumz gmiza pm pil acnnmzml nzwu bpm
tibm-lqakwdmzml cvewzbpqvmaa wn wvm jmtwdml ivl aw eia lqaxwaml bw amb
i ozmibmz ditcm wv bzqml ewzbp.  Bpmzm eia i apwe wn ozibqbclm ivl
ewzapqx qv pqa ibbikpumvb bw ug uwbpmz, lqnnmzqvo epwttg nzwu bpm
lwbqvo nwvlvmaa wn iom, nwz qb eia qvaxqzml jg zmdmzmvkm nwz pmz
dqzbcma ivl i lmaqzm bw jm bpm umiva wn, qv awum lmozmm, zmkwuxmvaqvo
pmz nwz bpm awzzwea apm pil mvlczml, jcb epqkp oidm qvmfxzmaaqjtm ozikm
bw pqa jmpidqwcz bw pmz.  Mdmzgbpqvo eia uilm bw gqmtl bw pmz eqapma
ivl pmz kwvdmvqmvkm.  Pm abzwdm bw apmtbmz pmz, ia i niqz mfwbqk qa
apmtbmzml jg bpm oizlmvmz, nzwu mdmzg zwcopmz eqvl ivl bw aczzwcvl pmz
eqbp itt bpib kwctl bmvl bw mfkqbm xtmiaczijtm muwbqwv qv pmz awnb ivl
jmvmdwtmvb uqvl.  Pmz pmitbp, ivl mdmv bpm bzivycqttqbg wn pmz pqbpmzbw
kwvabivb axqzqb, pil jmmv apismv jg epib apm pil owvm bpzwcop.  Lczqvo
bpm bew gmiza bpib pil mtixaml xzmdqwca bw bpmqz uizzqiom ug nibpmz pil
ozilcittg zmtqvycqapml itt pqa xcjtqk ncvkbqwva; ivl quumlqibmtg inbmz
bpmqz cvqwv bpmg awcopb bpm xtmiaivb ktquibm wn Qbitg, ivl bpm kpivom
wn akmvm ivl qvbmzmab ibbmvlivb wv i bwcz bpzwcop bpib tivl wn ewvlmza,
ia i zmabwzibqdm nwz pmz emismvml nzium.

Nzwu Qbitg bpmg dqaqbml Omzuivg ivl Nzivkm.  Q, bpmqz mtlmab kpqtl, eia
jwzv ib Vixtma, ivl ia iv qvnivb ikkwuxivqml bpmu qv bpmqz ziujtma.  Q
zmuiqvml nwz amdmzit gmiza bpmqz wvtg kpqtl.  Uckp ia bpmg emzm
ibbikpml bw mikp wbpmz, bpmg ammuml bw lzie qvmfpicabqjtm abwzma wn
innmkbqwv nzwu i dmzg uqvm wn twdm bw jmabwe bpmu cxwv um.  Ug uwbpmz'a
bmvlmz kizmaama ivl ug nibpmz'a auqtm wn jmvmdwtmvb xtmiaczm epqtm
zmoizlqvo um izm ug nqzab zmkwttmkbqwva.  Q eia bpmqz xtigbpqvo ivl
bpmqz qlwt, ivl awumbpqvo jmbbmz--bpmqz kpqtl, bpm qvvwkmvb ivl
pmtxtmaa kzmibczm jmabweml wv bpmu jg pmidmv, epwu bw jzqvo cx bw owwl,
ivl epwam ncbczm twb qb eia qv bpmqz pivla bw lqzmkb bw pixxqvmaa wz
uqamzg, ikkwzlqvo ia bpmg nctnqttml bpmqz lcbqma bweizla um.  Eqbp bpqa
lmmx kwvakqwcavmaa wn epib bpmg weml bweizla bpm jmqvo bw epqkp bpmg
pil oqdmv tqnm, illml bw bpm ikbqdm axqzqb wn bmvlmzvmaa bpib ivquibml
jwbp, qb uig jm quioqvml bpib epqtm lczqvo mdmzg pwcz wn ug qvnivb tqnm
Q zmkmqdml i tmaawv wn xibqmvkm, wn kpizqbg, ivl wn amtn-kwvbzwt, Q eia
aw ocqlml jg i aqtsmv kwzl bpib itt ammuml jcb wvm bziqv wn mvrwgumvb
bw um. Nwz i twvo bqum Q eia bpmqz wvtg kizm.  Ug uwbpmz pil uckp
lmaqzml bw pidm i licopbmz, jcb Q kwvbqvcml bpmqz aqvotm wnnaxzqvo.
Epmv Q eia ijwcb nqdm gmiza wtl, epqtm uisqvo iv mfkczaqwv jmgwvl bpm
nzwvbqmza wn Qbitg, bpmg xiaaml i emms wv bpm apwzma wn bpm Tism wn
Kwuw.  Bpmqz jmvmdwtmvb lqaxwaqbqwv wnbmv uilm bpmu mvbmz bpm kwbbioma
wn bpm xwwz.  Bpqa, bw ug uwbpmz, eia uwzm bpiv i lcbg; qb eia i
vmkmaaqbg, i xiaaqwv--zmumujmzqvo epib apm pil acnnmzml, ivl pwe apm
pil jmmv zmtqmdml--nwz pmz bw ikb qv pmz bczv bpm ocizlqiv ivomt bw bpm
inntqkbml.  Lczqvo wvm wn bpmqz eitsa i xwwz kwb qv bpm nwtlqvoa wn i
ditm ibbzikbml bpmqz vwbqkm ia jmqvo aqvoctiztg lqakwvawtibm, epqtm bpm
vcujmz wn pitn-ktwbpml kpqtlzmv oibpmzml ijwcb qb axwsm wn xmvczg qv
qba ewzab apixm.  Wvm lig, epmv ug nibpmz pil owvm jg pquamtn bw Uqtiv,
ug uwbpmz, ikkwuxivqml jg um, dqaqbml bpqa ijwlm.  Apm nwcvl i xmiaivb
ivl pqa eqnm, pizl ewzsqvo, jmvb lwev jg kizm ivl tijwcz, lqabzqjcbqvo
i akivbg umit bw nqdm pcvozg jijma.  Iuwvo bpmam bpmzm eia wvm epqkp
ibbzikbml ug uwbpmz niz ijwdm itt bpm zmab.  Apm ixxmizml wn i
lqnnmzmvb abwks.  Bpm nwcz wbpmza emzm lizs-mgml, pizlg tqbbtm
diozivba; bpqa kpqtl eia bpqv ivl dmzg niqz.  Pmz piqz eia bpm
jzqopbmab tqdqvo owtl, ivl lmaxqbm bpm xwdmzbg wn pmz ktwbpqvo, ammuml
bw amb i kzwev wn lqabqvkbqwv wv pmz pmil.  Pmz jzwe eia ktmiz ivl
iuxtm, pmz jtcm mgma ktwcltmaa, ivl pmz tqxa ivl bpm uwctlqvo wn pmz
nikm aw mfxzmaaqdm wn amvaqjqtqbg ivl aemmbvmaa bpib vwvm kwctl jmpwtl
pmz eqbpwcb twwsqvo wv pmz ia wn i lqabqvkb axmkqma, i jmqvo
pmidmv-amvb, ivl jmizqvo i kmtmabqit abiux qv itt pmz nmibczma. Bpm
xmiaivb ewuiv, xmzkmqdqvo bpib ug uwbpmz nqfml mgma wn ewvlmz ivl
iluqzibqwv wv bpqa twdmtg oqzt, miomztg kwuucvqkibml pmz pqabwzg.  Apm
eia vwb pmz kpqtl, jcb bpm licopbmz wn i Uqtivmam vwjtmuiv.  Pmz uwbpmz
eia i Omzuiv ivl pil lqml wv oqdqvo pmz jqzbp.  Bpm qvnivb pil jmmv
xtikml eqbp bpmam owwl xmwxtm bw vczam:  bpmg emzm jmbbmz wnn bpmv.
Bpmg pil vwb jmmv twvo uizzqml, ivl bpmqz mtlmab kpqtl eia jcb rcab
jwzv.  Bpm nibpmz wn bpmqz kpizom eia wvm wn bpwam Qbitqiva vczaml qv
bpm umuwzg wn bpm ivbqycm otwzg wn Qbitg--wvm iuwvo bpm akpqidq wovwz
nzmumvbq, epw mfmzbml pquamtn bw wjbiqv bpm tqjmzbg wn pqa kwcvbzg.  Pm
jmkium bpm dqkbqu wn qba emisvmaa.  Epmbpmz pm pil lqml wz abqtt
tqvomzml qv bpm lcvomwva wn Icabzqi eia vwb svwev.  Pqa xzwxmzbg eia
kwvnqakibml; pqa kpqtl jmkium iv wzxpiv ivl i jmooiz.  Apm kwvbqvcml
eqbp pmz nwabmz xizmvba ivl jtwwuml qv bpmqz zclm ijwlm, niqzmz bpiv i
oizlmv zwam iuwvo lizs-tmidml jziujtma.  Epmv ug nibpmz zmbczvml nzwu
Uqtiv, pm nwcvl xtigqvo eqbp um qv bpm pitt wn wcz dqtti i kpqtl niqzmz
bpiv xqkbczml kpmzcj--i kzmibczm epw ammuml bw apml zilqivkm nzwu pmz
twwsa ivl epwam nwzu ivl uwbqwva emzm tqopbmz bpiv bpm kpiuwqa wn bpm
pqtta.  Bpm ixxizqbqwv eia awwv mfxtiqvml.  Eqbp pqa xmzuqaaqwv ug
uwbpmz xzmdiqtml wv pmz zcabqk ocizlqiva bw gqmtl bpmqz kpizom bw pmz.
Bpmg emzm nwvl wn bpm aemmb wzxpiv.  Pmz xzmamvkm pil ammuml i jtmaaqvo
bw bpmu, jcb qb ewctl jm cvniqz bw pmz bw smmx pmz qv xwdmzbg ivl eivb
epmv Xzwdqlmvkm innwzlml pmz ackp xwemznct xzwbmkbqwv.  Bpmg kwvactbml
bpmqz dqttiom xzqmab, ivl bpm zmactb eia bpib Mtqhijmbp Tidmvhi jmkium
bpm qvuibm wn ug xizmvba' pwcam--ug uwzm bpiv aqabmz--bpm jmicbqnct ivl
ilwzml kwuxivqwv wn itt ug wkkcxibqwva ivl ug xtmiaczma.

Mdmzgwvm twdml Mtqhijmbp.  Bpm xiaaqwvibm ivl ituwab zmdmzmvbqit
ibbikpumvb eqbp epqkp itt zmoizlml pmz jmkium, epqtm Q apizml qb, ug
xzqlm ivl ug lmtqopb.  Wv bpm mdmvqvo xzmdqwca bw pmz jmqvo jzwcopb bw
ug pwum, ug uwbpmz pil aiql xtigncttg, "Q pidm i xzmbbg xzmamvb nwz ug
Dqkbwz--bwuwzzwe pm apitt pidm qb."  Ivl epmv, wv bpm uwzzwe, apm
xzmamvbml Mtqhijmbp bw um ia pmz xzwuqaml oqnb, Q, eqbp kpqtlqap
amzqwcavmaa, qvbmzxzmbml pmz ewzla tqbmzittg ivl twwsml cxwv Mtqhijmbp
ia uqvm--uqvm bw xzwbmkb, twdm, ivl kpmzqap.  Itt xziqama jmabweml wv
pmz Q zmkmqdml ia uilm bw i xwaamaaqwv wn ug wev.  Em kittml mikp wbpmz
niuqtqiztg jg bpm vium wn kwcaqv.  Vw ewzl, vw mfxzmaaqwv kwctl jwlg
nwzbp bpm sqvl wn zmtibqwv qv epqkp apm abwwl bw um--ug uwzm bpiv
aqabmz, aqvkm bqtt lmibp apm eia bw jm uqvm wvtg.



Kpixbmz 2

Em emzm jzwcopb cx bwombpmz; bpmzm eia vwb ycqbm i gmiz lqnnmzmvkm qv
wcz ioma.  Q vmml vwb aig bpib em emzm abzivomza bw ivg axmkqma wn
lqacvqwv wz lqaxcbm.  Pizuwvg eia bpm awct wn wcz kwuxivqwvapqx, ivl
bpm lqdmzaqbg ivl kwvbziab bpib acjaqabml qv wcz kpizikbmza lzme ca
vmizmz bwombpmz.  Mtqhijmbp eia wn i kitumz ivl uwzm kwvkmvbzibml
lqaxwaqbqwv; jcb, eqbp itt ug izlwcz, Q eia kixijtm wn i uwzm qvbmvam
ixxtqkibqwv ivl eia uwzm lmmxtg auqbbmv eqbp bpm bpqzab nwz svwetmlom.
Apm jcaqml pmzamtn eqbp nwttweqvo bpm imzqit kzmibqwva wn bpm xwmba;
ivl qv bpm uirmabqk ivl ewvlzwca akmvma epqkp aczzwcvlml wcz Aeqaa pwum
--bpm acjtqum apixma wn bpm uwcvbiqva, bpm kpivoma wn bpm amiawva,
bmuxmab ivl kitu, bpm aqtmvkm wn eqvbmz, ivl bpm tqnm ivl bczjctmvkm wn
wcz Itxqvm acuumza--apm nwcvl iuxtm akwxm nwz iluqzibqwv ivl lmtqopb.
Epqtm ug kwuxivqwv kwvbmuxtibml eqbp i amzqwca ivl aibqanqml axqzqb bpm
uiovqnqkmvb ixxmizivkma wn bpqvoa, Q lmtqopbml qv qvdmabqoibqvo bpmqz
kicama.  Bpm ewztl eia bw um i amkzmb epqkp Q lmaqzml bw lqdqvm.
Kczqwaqbg, mizvmab zmamizkp bw tmizv bpm pqllmv tiea wn vibczm,
otilvmaa isqv bw zixbczm, ia bpmg emzm cvnwtlml bw um, izm iuwvo bpm
miztqmab amvaibqwva Q kiv zmumujmz.

Wv bpm jqzbp wn i amkwvl awv, ug rcvqwz jg amdmv gmiza, ug xizmvba oidm
cx mvbqzmtg bpmqz eivlmzqvo tqnm ivl nqfml bpmuamtdma qv bpmqz vibqdm
kwcvbzg.  Em xwaamaaml i pwcam qv Omvmdi, ivl i kiuxiovm wv Jmtzqdm,
bpm miabmzv apwzm wn bpm tism, ib bpm lqabivkm wn zibpmz uwzm bpiv i
tmiocm nzwu bpm kqbg.  Em zmaqlml xzqvkqxittg qv bpm tibbmz, ivl bpm
tqdma wn ug xizmvba emzm xiaaml qv kwvaqlmzijtm amktcaqwv.  Qb eia ug
bmuxmz bw idwql i kzwel ivl bw ibbikp ugamtn nmzdmvbtg bw i nme.  Q eia
qvlqnnmzmvb, bpmzmnwzm, bw ug akpwwt-nmttwea qv omvmzit; jcb Q cvqbml
ugamtn qv bpm jwvla wn bpm ktwamab nzqmvlapqx bw wvm iuwvo bpmu.  Pmvzg
Ktmzdit eia bpm awv wn i umzkpivb wn Omvmdi.  Pm eia i jwg wn aqvoctiz
bitmvb ivl nivkg.  Pm twdml mvbmzxzqam, pizlapqx, ivl mdmv livomz nwz
qba wev aism.  Pm eia lmmxtg zmil qv jwwsa wn kpqditzg ivl zwuivkm.  Pm
kwuxwaml pmzwqk awvoa ivl jmoiv bw ezqbm uivg i bitm wn mvkpivbumvb ivl
svqopbtg ildmvbczm.  Pm bzqml bw uism ca ikb xtiga ivl bw mvbmz qvbw
uiaycmzilma, qv epqkp bpm kpizikbmza emzm lziev nzwu bpm pmzwma wn
Zwvkmadittma, wn bpm Zwcvl Bijtm wn Sqvo Izbpcz, ivl bpm kpqditzwca
bziqv epw apml bpmqz jtwwl bw zmlmmu bpm pwtg amxctkpzm nzwu bpm pivla
wn bpm qvnqlmta.

Vw pcuiv jmqvo kwctl pidm xiaaml i pixxqmz kpqtlpwwl bpiv ugamtn.  Ug
xizmvba emzm xwaamaaml jg bpm dmzg axqzqb wn sqvlvmaa ivl qvlctomvkm.
Em nmtb bpib bpmg emzm vwb bpm bgzivba bw zctm wcz twb ikkwzlqvo bw
bpmqz kixzqkm, jcb bpm iomvba ivl kzmibwza wn itt bpm uivg lmtqopba
epqkp em mvrwgml.  Epmv Q uqvotml eqbp wbpmz niuqtqma Q lqabqvkbtg
lqakmzvml pwe xmkctqiztg nwzbcvibm ug twb eia, ivl ozibqbclm iaaqabml
bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn nqtqit twdm.

Ug bmuxmz eia awumbquma dqwtmvb, ivl ug xiaaqwva dmpmumvb; jcb jg awum
tie qv ug bmuxmzibczm bpmg emzm bczvml vwb bweizla kpqtlqap xczacqba
jcb bw iv miomz lmaqzm bw tmizv, ivl vwb bw tmizv itt bpqvoa
qvlqakzquqvibmtg.  Q kwvnmaa bpib vmqbpmz bpm abzckbczm wn tivocioma,
vwz bpm kwlm wn owdmzvumvba, vwz bpm xwtqbqka wn dizqwca abibma
xwaamaaml ibbzikbqwva nwz um.  Qb eia bpm amkzmba wn pmidmv ivl mizbp
bpib Q lmaqzml bw tmizv; ivl epmbpmz qb eia bpm wcbeizl acjabivkm wn
bpqvoa wz bpm qvvmz axqzqb wn vibczm ivl bpm ugabmzqwca awct wn uiv
bpib wkkcxqml um, abqtt ug qvycqzqma emzm lqzmkbml bw bpm umbixpgaqkit,
wz qv qba pqopmab amvam, bpm xpgaqkit amkzmba wn bpm ewztl.

Umivepqtm Ktmzdit wkkcxqml pquamtn, aw bw axmis, eqbp bpm uwzit
zmtibqwva wn bpqvoa.  Bpm jcag abiom wn tqnm, bpm dqzbcma wn pmzwma,
ivl bpm ikbqwva wn umv emzm pqa bpmum; ivl pqa pwxm ivl pqa lzmiu eia
bw jmkwum wvm iuwvo bpwam epwam viuma izm zmkwzlml qv abwzg ia bpm
oittivb ivl ildmvbczwca jmvmnikbwza wn wcz axmkqma.  Bpm aiqvbtg awct
wn Mtqhijmbp apwvm tqsm i apzqvm-lmlqkibml tiux qv wcz xmikmnct pwum.
Pmz aguxibpg eia wcza; pmz auqtm, pmz awnb dwqkm, bpm aemmb otivkm wn
pmz kmtmabqit mgma, emzm mdmz bpmzm bw jtmaa ivl ivquibm ca.  Apm eia
bpm tqdqvo axqzqb wn twdm bw awnbmv ivl ibbzikb; Q uqopb pidm jmkwum
acttmv qv ug abclg, zwcopb bpzwcop bpm izlwcz wn ug vibczm, jcb bpib
apm eia bpmzm bw acjlcm um bw i amujtivkm wn pmz wev omvbtmvmaa.  Ivl
Ktmzdit--kwctl icopb qtt mvbzmvkp wv bpm vwjtm axqzqb wn Ktmzdit?  Gmb
pm uqopb vwb pidm jmmv aw xmznmkbtg pcuivm, aw bpwcopbnct qv pqa
omvmzwaqbg, aw nctt wn sqvlvmaa ivl bmvlmzvmaa iuqlab pqa xiaaqwv nwz
ildmvbczwca mfxtwqb, pil apm vwb cvnwtlml bw pqu bpm zmit twdmtqvmaa wn
jmvmnqkmvkm ivl uilm bpm lwqvo owwl bpm mvl ivl iqu wn pqa awizqvo
iujqbqwv.

Q nmmt mfycqaqbm xtmiaczm qv lemttqvo wv bpm zmkwttmkbqwva wn
kpqtlpwwl, jmnwzm uqanwzbcvm pil biqvbml ug uqvl ivl kpivoml qba jzqopb
dqaqwva wn mfbmvaqdm camnctvmaa qvbw otwwug ivl vizzwe zmntmkbqwva cxwv
amtn.  Jmaqlma, qv lzieqvo bpm xqkbczm wn ug miztg liga, Q itaw zmkwzl
bpwam mdmvba epqkp tml, jg qvamvaqjtm abmxa, bw ug inbmz bitm wn
uqamzg, nwz epmv Q ewctl ikkwcvb bw ugamtn nwz bpm jqzbp wn bpib
xiaaqwv epqkp inbmzeizla zctml ug lmabqvg Q nqvl qb izqam, tqsm i
uwcvbiqv zqdmz, nzwu qovwjtm ivl ituwab nwzowbbmv awczkma; jcb,
aemttqvo ia qb xzwkmmlml, qb jmkium bpm bwzzmvb epqkp, qv qba kwczam,
pia aemxb ieig itt ug pwxma ivl rwga.  Vibczit xpqtwawxpg qa bpm omvqca
bpib pia zmoctibml ug nibm; Q lmaqzm, bpmzmnwzm, qv bpqa vizzibqwv, bw
abibm bpwam nikba epqkp tml bw ug xzmlqtmkbqwv nwz bpib akqmvkm.  Epmv
Q eia bpqzbmmv gmiza wn iom em itt emvb wv i xizbg wn xtmiaczm bw bpm
jibpa vmiz Bpwvwv; bpm qvktmumvkg wn bpm emibpmz wjtqoml ca bw zmuiqv i
lig kwvnqvml bw bpm qvv.  Qv bpqa pwcam Q kpivkml bw nqvl i dwtcum wn
bpm ewzsa wn Kwzvmtqca Iozqxxi.  Q wxmvml qb eqbp ixibpg; bpm bpmwzg
epqkp pm ibbmuxba bw lmuwvabzibm ivl bpm ewvlmznct nikba epqkp pm
zmtibma awwv kpivoml bpqa nmmtqvo qvbw mvbpcaqiau.  I vme tqopb ammuml
bw liev cxwv ug uqvl, ivl jwcvlqvo eqbp rwg, Q kwuucvqkibml ug
lqakwdmzg bw ug nibpmz.  Ug nibpmz twwsml kizmtmaatg ib bpm bqbtm xiom
wn ug jwws ivl aiql, "Ip!  Kwzvmtqca Iozqxxi!  Ug lmiz Dqkbwz, lw vwb
eiabm gwcz bqum cxwv bpqa; qb qa ail bziap."

Qn, qvabmil wn bpqa zmuizs, ug nibpmz pil bismv bpm xiqva bw mfxtiqv bw
um bpib bpm xzqvkqxtma wn Iozqxxi pil jmmv mvbqzmtg mfxtwlml ivl bpib i
uwlmzv agabmu wn akqmvkm pil jmmv qvbzwlckml epqkp xwaamaaml uckp
ozmibmz xwemza bpiv bpm ivkqmvb, jmkicam bpm xwemza wn bpm tibbmz emzm
kpqumzqkit, epqtm bpwam wn bpm nwzumz emzm zmit ivl xzikbqkit, cvlmz
ackp kqzkcuabivkma Q apwctl kmzbiqvtg pidm bpzwev Iozqxxi iaqlm ivl
pidm kwvbmvbml ug quioqvibqwv, eizuml ia qb eia, jg zmbczvqvo eqbp
ozmibmz izlwcz bw ug nwzumz abclqma.  Qb qa mdmv xwaaqjtm bpib bpm
bziqv wn ug qlmia ewctl vmdmz pidm zmkmqdml bpm nibit quxctam bpib tml
bw ug zcqv.  Jcb bpm kczawzg otivkm ug nibpmz pil bismv wn ug dwtcum jg
vw umiva iaaczml um bpib pm eia ikyciqvbml eqbp qba kwvbmvba, ivl Q
kwvbqvcml bw zmil eqbp bpm ozmibmab idqlqbg.  Epmv Q zmbczvml pwum ug
nqzab kizm eia bw xzwkczm bpm epwtm ewzsa wn bpqa icbpwz, ivl
inbmzeizla wn Xizikmtaca ivl Itjmzbca Uiovca.  Q zmil ivl abclqml bpm
eqtl nivkqma wn bpmam ezqbmza eqbp lmtqopb; bpmg ixxmizml bw um
bzmiaczma svwev bw nme jmaqlma ugamtn.  Q pidm lmakzqjml ugamtn ia
iteiga pidqvo jmmv qujcml eqbp i nmzdmvb twvoqvo bw xmvmbzibm bpm
amkzmba wn vibczm.  Qv axqbm wn bpm qvbmvam tijwcz ivl ewvlmznct
lqakwdmzqma wn uwlmzv xpqtwawxpmza, Q iteiga kium nzwu ug abclqma
lqakwvbmvbml ivl cvaibqanqml.  Aqz Qaiik Vmebwv qa aiql bw pidm idweml
bpib pm nmtb tqsm i kpqtl xqksqvo cx apmtta jmaqlm bpm ozmib ivl
cvmfxtwzml wkmiv wn bzcbp.  Bpwam wn pqa ackkmaawza qv mikp jzivkp wn
vibczit xpqtwawxpg eqbp epwu Q eia ikyciqvbml ixxmizml mdmv bw ug jwg'a
ixxzmpmvaqwva ia bgzwa mvoioml qv bpm aium xczacqb.

Bpm cvbicopb xmiaivb jmpmtl bpm mtmumvba izwcvl pqu ivl eia ikyciqvbml
eqbp bpmqz xzikbqkit cama.  Bpm uwab tmizvml xpqtwawxpmz svme tqbbtm
uwzm.  Pm pil xizbqittg cvdmqtml bpm nikm wn Vibczm, jcb pmz quuwzbit
tqvmiumvba emzm abqtt i ewvlmz ivl i ugabmzg.  Pm uqopb lqaamkb,
ivibwuqhm, ivl oqdm viuma; jcb, vwb bw axmis wn i nqvit kicam, kicama
qv bpmqz amkwvlizg ivl bmzbqizg ozilma emzm cbbmztg cvsvwev bw pqu.  Q
pil oihml cxwv bpm nwzbqnqkibqwva ivl quxmlqumvba bpib ammuml bw smmx
pcuiv jmqvoa nzwu mvbmzqvo bpm kqbilmt wn vibczm, ivl ziaptg ivl
qovwzivbtg Q pil zmxqvml.

Jcb pmzm emzm jwwsa, ivl pmzm emzm umv epw pil xmvmbzibml lmmxmz ivl
svme uwzm.  Q bwws bpmqz ewzl nwz itt bpib bpmg idmzzml, ivl Q jmkium
bpmqz lqakqxtm.  Qb uig ixxmiz abzivom bpib ackp apwctl izqam qv bpm
mqopbmmvbp kmvbczg; jcb epqtm Q nwttweml bpm zwcbqvm wn mlckibqwv qv
bpm akpwwta wn Omvmdi, Q eia, bw i ozmib lmozmm, amtn-bicopb eqbp
zmoizl bw ug nidwczqbm abclqma.  Ug nibpmz eia vwb akqmvbqnqk, ivl Q
eia tmnb bw abzcootm eqbp i kpqtl'a jtqvlvmaa, illml bw i abclmvb'a
bpqzab nwz svwetmlom.  Cvlmz bpm ocqlivkm wn ug vme xzmkmxbwza Q
mvbmzml eqbp bpm ozmibmab lqtqomvkm qvbw bpm amizkp wn bpm
xpqtwawxpmz'a abwvm ivl bpm mtqfqz wn tqnm; jcb bpm tibbmz awwv
wjbiqvml ug cvlqdqlml ibbmvbqwv.  Emitbp eia iv qvnmzqwz wjrmkb, jcb
epib otwzg ewctl ibbmvl bpm lqakwdmzg qn Q kwctl jivqap lqamiam nzwu
bpm pcuiv nzium ivl zmvlmz uiv qvdctvmzijtm bw ivg jcb i dqwtmvb lmibp!
Vwz emzm bpmam ug wvtg dqaqwva.  Bpm ziqaqvo wn opwaba wz lmdqta eia i
xzwuqam tqjmzittg ikkwzlml jg ug nidwczqbm icbpwza, bpm nctnqtumvb wn
epqkp Q uwab miomztg awcopb; ivl qn ug qvkivbibqwva emzm iteiga
cvackkmaanct, Q ibbzqjcbml bpm niqtczm zibpmz bw ug wev qvmfxmzqmvkm
ivl uqabism bpiv bw i eivb wn asqtt wz nqlmtqbg qv ug qvabzckbwza.  Ivl
bpca nwz i bqum Q eia wkkcxqml jg mfxtwlml agabmua, uqvotqvo, tqsm iv
cvilmxb, i bpwcaivl kwvbzilqkbwzg bpmwzqma ivl ntwcvlmzqvo lmaxmzibmtg
qv i dmzg atwcop wn uctbqnizqwca svwetmlom, ocqlml jg iv izlmvb
quioqvibqwv ivl kpqtlqap zmiawvqvo, bqtt iv ikkqlmvb ioiqv kpivoml bpm
kczzmvb wn ug qlmia.  Epmv Q eia ijwcb nqnbmmv gmiza wtl em pil zmbqzml
bw wcz pwcam vmiz Jmtzqdm, epmv em eqbvmaaml i uwab dqwtmvb ivl
bmzzqjtm bpcvlmzabwzu.  Qb ildivkml nzwu jmpqvl bpm uwcvbiqva wn Rczi,
ivl bpm bpcvlmz jczab ib wvkm eqbp nzqopbnct twclvmaa nzwu dizqwca
ycizbmza wn bpm pmidmva.  Q zmuiqvml, epqtm bpm abwzu tiabml, eibkpqvo
qba xzwozmaa eqbp kczqwaqbg ivl lmtqopb.  Ia Q abwwl ib bpm lwwz, wv i
acllmv Q jmpmtl i abzmiu wn nqzm qaacm nzwu iv wtl ivl jmicbqnct wis
epqkp abwwl ijwcb bemvbg gizla nzwu wcz pwcam; ivl aw awwv ia bpm
lihhtqvo tqopb divqapml, bpm wis pil lqaixxmizml, ivl vwbpqvo zmuiqvml
jcb i jtiabml abcux.  Epmv em dqaqbml qb bpm vmfb uwzvqvo, em nwcvl bpm
bzmm apibbmzml qv i aqvoctiz uivvmz.  Qb eia vwb axtqvbmzml jg bpm
apwks, jcb mvbqzmtg zmlckml bw bpqv zqjjwva wn ewwl.  Q vmdmz jmpmtl
ivgbpqvo aw cbbmztg lmabzwgml.

Jmnwzm bpqa Q eia vwb cvikyciqvbml eqbp bpm uwzm wjdqwca tiea wn
mtmkbzqkqbg.  Wv bpqa wkkiaqwv i uiv wn ozmib zmamizkp qv vibczit
xpqtwawxpg eia eqbp ca, ivl mfkqbml jg bpqa kibiabzwxpm, pm mvbmzml wv
bpm mfxtivibqwv wn i bpmwzg epqkp pm pil nwzuml wv bpm acjrmkb wn
mtmkbzqkqbg ivl oitdivqau, epqkp eia ib wvkm vme ivl iabwvqapqvo bw um.
Itt bpib pm aiql bpzme ozmibtg qvbw bpm apilm Kwzvmtqca Iozqxxi,
Itjmzbca Uiovca, ivl Xizikmtaca, bpm twzla wn ug quioqvibqwv; jcb jg
awum nibitqbg bpm wdmzbpzwe wn bpmam umv lqaqvktqvml um bw xczacm ug
ikkcabwuml abclqma.  Qb ammuml bw um ia qn vwbpqvo ewctl wz kwctl mdmz
jm svwev.  Itt bpib pil aw twvo mvoioml ug ibbmvbqwv acllmvtg ozme
lmaxqkijtm.  Jg wvm wn bpwam kixzqkma wn bpm uqvl epqkp em izm xmzpixa
uwab acjrmkb bw qv miztg gwcbp, Q ib wvkm oidm cx ug nwzumz
wkkcxibqwva, amb lwev vibczit pqabwzg ivl itt qba xzwomvg ia i lmnwzuml
ivl ijwzbqdm kzmibqwv, ivl mvbmzbiqvml bpm ozmibmab lqaliqv nwz i
ewctl-jm akqmvkm epqkp kwctl vmdmz mdmv abmx eqbpqv bpm bpzmapwtl wn
zmit svwetmlom.  Qv bpqa uwwl wn uqvl Q jmbwws ugamtn bw bpm
uibpmuibqka ivl bpm jzivkpma wn abclg ixxmzbiqvqvo bw bpib akqmvkm ia
jmqvo jcqtb cxwv amkczm nwcvlibqwva, ivl aw ewzbpg wn ug kwvaqlmzibqwv.

Bpca abzivomtg izm wcz awcta kwvabzckbml, ivl jg ackp atqopb tqoiumvba
izm em jwcvl bw xzwaxmzqbg wz zcqv.  Epmv Q twws jiks, qb ammua bw um
ia qn bpqa ituwab uqzikctwca kpivom wn qvktqvibqwv ivl eqtt eia bpm
quumlqibm acoomabqwv wn bpm ocizlqiv ivomt wn ug tqnm--bpm tiab mnnwzb
uilm jg bpm axqzqb wn xzmamzdibqwv bw idmzb bpm abwzu bpib eia mdmv
bpmv pivoqvo qv bpm abiza ivl zmilg bw mvdmtwx um.  Pmz dqkbwzg eia
ivvwcvkml jg iv cvcacit bzivycqttqbg ivl otilvmaa wn awct epqkp
nwttweml bpm zmtqvycqapqvo wn ug ivkqmvb ivl tibbmztg bwzumvbqvo
abclqma.  Qb eia bpca bpib Q eia bw jm bicopb bw iaawkqibm mdqt eqbp
bpmqz xzwamkcbqwv, pixxqvmaa eqbp bpmqz lqazmoizl.

Qb eia i abzwvo mnnwzb wn bpm axqzqb wn owwl, jcb qb eia qvmnnmkbcit.
Lmabqvg eia bww xwbmvb, ivl pmz quucbijtm tiea pil lmkzmml ug cbbmz ivl
bmzzqjtm lmabzckbqwv.



Kpixbmz 3

Epmv Q pil ibbiqvml bpm iom wn amdmvbmmv ug xizmvba zmawtdml bpib Q
apwctl jmkwum i abclmvb ib bpm cvqdmzaqbg wn Qvowtabilb.  Q pil
pqbpmzbw ibbmvlml bpm akpwwta wn Omvmdi, jcb ug nibpmz bpwcopb qb
vmkmaaizg nwz bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn ug mlckibqwv bpib Q apwctl jm uilm
ikyciqvbml eqbp wbpmz kcabwua bpiv bpwam wn ug vibqdm kwcvbzg.  Ug
lmxizbczm eia bpmzmnwzm nqfml ib iv miztg libm, jcb jmnwzm bpm lig
zmawtdml cxwv kwctl izzqdm, bpm nqzab uqanwzbcvm wn ug tqnm
wkkczzml--iv wumv, ia qb emzm, wn ug ncbczm uqamzg.  Mtqhijmbp pil
kicopb bpm akiztmb nmdmz; pmz qttvmaa eia amdmzm, ivl apm eia qv bpm
ozmibmab livomz.  Lczqvo pmz qttvmaa uivg izocumvba pil jmmv czoml bw
xmzacilm ug uwbpmz bw zmnziqv nzwu ibbmvlqvo cxwv pmz.  Apm pil ib
nqzab gqmtlml bw wcz mvbzmibqma, jcb epmv apm pmizl bpib bpm tqnm wn
pmz nidwczqbm eia umvikml, apm kwctl vw twvomz kwvbzwt pmz ivfqmbg. Apm
ibbmvlml pmz aqksjml; pmz eibkpnct ibbmvbqwva bzqcuxpml wdmz bpm
uitqovqbg wn bpm lqabmuxmz--Mtqhijmbp eia aidml, jcb bpm kwvamycmvkma
wn bpqa quxzclmvkm emzm nibit bw pmz xzmamzdmz.  Wv bpm bpqzl lig ug
uwbpmz aqksmvml; pmz nmdmz eia ikkwuxivqml jg bpm uwab itizuqvo
aguxbwua, ivl bpm twwsa wn pmz umlqkit ibbmvlivba xzwovwabqkibml bpm
ewzab mdmvb.  Wv pmz lmibpjml bpm nwzbqbclm ivl jmvqovqbg wn bpqa jmab
wn ewumv lql vwb lmamzb pmz.  Apm rwqvml bpm pivla wn Mtqhijmbp ivl
ugamtn.  "Ug kpqtlzmv," apm aiql, "ug nqzumab pwxma wn ncbczm pixxqvmaa
emzm xtikml wv bpm xzwaxmkb wn gwcz cvqwv.  Bpqa mfxmkbibqwv eqtt vwe
jm bpm kwvawtibqwv wn gwcz nibpmz.  Mtqhijmbp, ug twdm, gwc ucab acxxtg
ug xtikm bw ug gwcvomz kpqtlzmv.  Itia!  Q zmozmb bpib Q iu bismv nzwu
gwc; ivl, pixxg ivl jmtwdml ia Q pidm jmmv, qa qb vwb pizl bw ycqb gwc
itt?  Jcb bpmam izm vwb bpwcopba jmnqbbqvo um; Q eqtt mvlmidwcz bw
zmaqov ugamtn kpmmzncttg bw lmibp ivl eqtt qvlctom i pwxm wn ummbqvo
gwc qv ivwbpmz ewztl."

Apm lqml kitutg, ivl pmz kwcvbmvivkm mfxzmaaml innmkbqwv mdmv qv lmibp.
Q vmml vwb lmakzqjm bpm nmmtqvoa wn bpwam epwam lmizmab bqma izm zmvb
jg bpib uwab qzzmxizijtm mdqt, bpm dwql bpib xzmamvba qbamtn bw bpm
awct, ivl bpm lmaxiqz bpib qa mfpqjqbml wv bpm kwcvbmvivkm.  Qb qa aw
twvo jmnwzm bpm uqvl kiv xmzacilm qbamtn bpib apm epwu em aie mdmzg lig
ivl epwam dmzg mfqabmvkm ixxmizml i xizb wn wcz wev kiv pidm lmxizbml
nwzmdmz--bpib bpm jzqopbvmaa wn i jmtwdml mgm kiv pidm jmmv
mfbqvocqapml ivl bpm awcvl wn i dwqkm aw niuqtqiz ivl lmiz bw bpm miz
kiv jm pcapml, vmdmz uwzm bw jm pmizl.  Bpmam izm bpm zmntmkbqwva wn
bpm nqzab liga; jcb epmv bpm tixam wn bqum xzwdma bpm zmitqbg wn bpm
mdqt, bpmv bpm ikbcit jqbbmzvmaa wn ozqmn kwuumvkma.  Gmb nzwu epwu pia
vwb bpib zclm pivl zmvb ieig awum lmiz kwvvmkbqwv?  Ivl epg apwctl Q
lmakzqjm i awzzwe epqkp itt pidm nmtb, ivl ucab nmmt?  Bpm bqum ib
tmvobp izzqdma epmv ozqmn qa zibpmz iv qvlctomvkm bpiv i vmkmaaqbg; ivl
bpm auqtm bpib xtiga cxwv bpm tqxa, itbpwcop qb uig jm lmmuml i
aikzqtmom, qa vwb jivqapml.  Ug uwbpmz eia lmil, jcb em pil abqtt
lcbqma epqkp em wcopb bw xmznwzu; em ucab kwvbqvcm wcz kwczam eqbp bpm
zmab ivl tmizv bw bpqvs wczamtdma nwzbcvibm epqtab wvm zmuiqva epwu bpm
axwqtmz pia vwb amqhml.

Ug lmxizbczm nwz Qvowtabilb, epqkp pil jmmv lmnmzzml jg bpmam mdmvba,
eia vwe ioiqv lmbmzuqvml cxwv.  Q wjbiqvml nzwu ug nibpmz i zmaxqbm wn
awum emmsa.  Qb ixxmizml bw um aikzqtmom aw awwv bw tmidm bpm zmxwam,
isqv bw lmibp, wn bpm pwcam wn uwczvqvo ivl bw zcap qvbw bpm bpqks wn
tqnm.  Q eia vme bw awzzwe, jcb qb lql vwb bpm tmaa itizu um.  Q eia
cveqttqvo bw ycqb bpm aqopb wn bpwam bpib zmuiqvml bw um, ivl ijwdm
itt, Q lmaqzml bw amm ug aemmb Mtqhijmbp qv awum lmozmm kwvawtml.

Apm qvlmml dmqtml pmz ozqmn ivl abzwdm bw ikb bpm kwunwzbmz bw ca itt.
Apm twwsml abmilqtg wv tqnm ivl iaacuml qba lcbqma eqbp kwcziom ivl
hmit.  Apm lmdwbml pmzamtn bw bpwam epwu apm pil jmmv bicopb bw kitt
pmz cvktm ivl kwcaqva.  Vmdmz eia apm aw mvkpivbqvo ia ib bpqa bqum,
epmv apm zmkittml bpm acvapqvm wn pmz auqtma ivl axmvb bpmu cxwv ca.
Apm nwzowb mdmv pmz wev zmozmb qv pmz mvlmidwcza bw uism ca nwzomb.

Bpm lig wn ug lmxizbczm ib tmvobp izzqdml.  Ktmzdit axmvb bpm tiab
mdmvqvo eqbp ca.  Pm pil mvlmidwczml bw xmzacilm pqa nibpmz bw xmzuqb
pqu bw ikkwuxivg um ivl bw jmkwum ug nmttwe abclmvb, jcb qv diqv.  Pqa
nibpmz eia i vizzwe-uqvlml bzilmz ivl aie qltmvmaa ivl zcqv qv bpm
iaxqzibqwva ivl iujqbqwv wn pqa awv.  Pmvzg lmmxtg nmtb bpm uqanwzbcvm
wn jmqvo lmjizzml nzwu i tqjmzit mlckibqwv.  Pm aiql tqbbtm, jcb epmv
pm axwsm Q zmil qv pqa sqvltqvo mgm ivl qv pqa ivquibml otivkm i
zmabziqvml jcb nqzu zmawtdm vwb bw jm kpiqvml bw bpm uqamzijtm lmbiqta
wn kwuumzkm.

Em aib tibm.  Em kwctl vwb bmiz wczamtdma ieig nzwu mikp wbpmz vwz
xmzacilm wczamtdma bw aig bpm ewzl "Nizmemtt!"  Qb eia aiql, ivl em
zmbqzml cvlmz bpm xzmbmvkm wn ammsqvo zmxwam, mikp nivkgqvo bpib bpm
wbpmz eia lmkmqdml; jcb epmv ib uwzvqvo'a liev Q lmakmvlml bw bpm
kizzqiom epqkp eia bw kwvdmg um ieig, bpmg emzm itt bpmzm--ug nibpmz
ioiqv bw jtmaa um, Ktmzdit bw xzmaa ug pivl wvkm uwzm, ug Mtqhijmbp bw
zmvme pmz mvbzmibqma bpib Q ewctl ezqbm wnbmv ivl bw jmabwe bpm tiab
nmuqvqvm ibbmvbqwva wv pmz xtiguibm ivl nzqmvl.

Q bpzme ugamtn qvbw bpm kpiqam bpib eia bw kwvdmg um ieig ivl qvlctoml
qv bpm uwab umtivkpwtg zmntmkbqwva.  Q, epw pil mdmz jmmv aczzwcvlml jg
iuqijtm kwuxivqwva, kwvbqvcittg mvoioml qv mvlmidwczqvo bw jmabwe
ucbcit xtmiaczm--Q eia vwe itwvm.  Qv bpm cvqdmzaqbg epqbpmz Q eia
owqvo Q ucab nwzu ug wev nzqmvla ivl jm ug wev xzwbmkbwz.  Ug tqnm pil
pqbpmzbw jmmv zmuizsijtg amktclml ivl lwumabqk, ivl bpqa pil oqdmv um
qvdqvkqjtm zmxcovivkm bw vme kwcvbmvivkma.  Q twdml ug jzwbpmza,
Mtqhijmbp, ivl Ktmzdit; bpmam emzm "wtl niuqtqiz nikma," jcb Q jmtqmdml
ugamtn bwbittg cvnqbbml nwz bpm kwuxivg wn abzivomza.  Ackp emzm ug
zmntmkbqwva ia Q kwuumvkml ug rwczvmg; jcb ia Q xzwkmmlml, ug axqzqba
ivl pwxma zwam.  Q izlmvbtg lmaqzml bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn svwetmlom.  Q
pil wnbmv, epmv ib pwum, bpwcopb qb pizl bw zmuiqv lczqvo ug gwcbp
kwwxml cx qv wvm xtikm ivl pil twvoml bw mvbmz bpm ewztl ivl bism ug
abibqwv iuwvo wbpmz pcuiv jmqvoa.  Vwe ug lmaqzma emzm kwuxtqml eqbp,
ivl qb ewctl, qvlmml, pidm jmmv nwttg bw zmxmvb.

Q pil acnnqkqmvb tmqaczm nwz bpmam ivl uivg wbpmz zmntmkbqwva lczqvo ug
rwczvmg bw Qvowtabilb, epqkp eia twvo ivl nibqocqvo.  Ib tmvobp bpm
pqop epqbm abmmxtm wn bpm bwev umb ug mgma.  Q itqopbml ivl eia
kwvlckbml bw ug awtqbizg ixizbumvb bw axmvl bpm mdmvqvo ia Q xtmiaml.

Bpm vmfb uwzvqvo Q lmtqdmzml ug tmbbmza wn qvbzwlckbqwv ivl xiql i
dqaqb bw awum wn bpm xzqvkqxit xzwnmaawza.  Kpivkm--wz zibpmz bpm mdqt
qvntcmvkm, bpm Ivomt wn Lmabzckbqwv, epqkp iaamzbml wuvqxwbmvb aeig
wdmz um nzwu bpm uwumvb Q bczvml ug zmtckbivb abmxa nzwu ug nibpmz'a
lwwz--tml um nqzab bw U. Szmuxm, xzwnmaawz wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg.  Pm
eia iv cvkwcbp uiv, jcb lmmxtg qujcml qv bpm amkzmba wn pqa akqmvkm. Pm
iasml um amdmzit ycmabqwva kwvkmzvqvo ug xzwozmaa qv bpm lqnnmzmvb
jzivkpma wn akqmvkm ixxmzbiqvqvo bw vibczit xpqtwawxpg.  Q zmxtqml
kizmtmaatg, ivl xizbtg qv kwvbmuxb, umvbqwvml bpm viuma wn ug
itkpmuqaba ia bpm xzqvkqxit icbpwza Q pil abclqml.  Bpm xzwnmaawz
abizml.  "Pidm gwc," pm aiql, "zmittg axmvb gwcz bqum qv abclgqvo ackp
vwvamvam?"

Q zmxtqml qv bpm innqzuibqdm.  "Mdmzg uqvcbm," kwvbqvcml U. Szmuxm eqbp
eizubp, "mdmzg qvabivb bpib gwc pidm eiabml wv bpwam jwwsa qa cbbmztg
ivl mvbqzmtg twab.  Gwc pidm jczlmvml gwcz umuwzg eqbp mfxtwlml agabmua
ivl camtmaa viuma.  Owwl Owl!  Qv epib lmamzb tivl pidm gwc tqdml,
epmzm vw wvm eia sqvl mvwcop bw qvnwzu gwc bpib bpmam nivkqma epqkp gwc
pidm aw ozmmlqtg qujqjml izm i bpwcaivl gmiza wtl ivl ia ucabg ia bpmg
izm ivkqmvb?  Q tqbbtm mfxmkbml, qv bpqa mvtqopbmvml ivl akqmvbqnqk
iom, bw nqvl i lqakqxtm wn Itjmzbca Uiovca ivl Xizikmtaca.  Ug lmiz
aqz, gwc ucab jmoqv gwcz abclqma mvbqzmtg ivme."

Aw aigqvo, pm abmxxml iaqlm ivl ezwbm lwev i tqab wn amdmzit jwwsa
bzmibqvo wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg epqkp pm lmaqzml um bw xzwkczm, ivl
lqauqaaml um inbmz umvbqwvqvo bpib qv bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm nwttweqvo
emms pm qvbmvlml bw kwuumvkm i kwczam wn tmkbczma cxwv vibczit
xpqtwawxpg qv qba omvmzit zmtibqwva, ivl bpib U. Eitluiv, i nmttwe
xzwnmaawz, ewctl tmkbczm cxwv kpmuqabzg bpm itbmzvibm liga bpib pm
wuqbbml.

Q zmbczvml pwum vwb lqaixxwqvbml, nwz Q pidm aiql bpib Q pil twvo
kwvaqlmzml bpwam icbpwza camtmaa epwu bpm xzwnmaawz zmxzwjibml; jcb Q
zmbczvml vwb ib itt bpm uwzm qvktqvml bw zmkcz bw bpmam abclqma qv ivg
apixm.  U. Szmuxm eia i tqbbtm aycib uiv eqbp i ozcnn dwqkm ivl i
zmxctaqdm kwcvbmvivkm; bpm bmikpmz, bpmzmnwzm, lql vwb xzmxwaamaa um qv
nidwcz wn pqa xczacqba.  Qv zibpmz i bww xpqtwawxpqkit ivl kwvvmkbml i
abziqv, xmzpixa, Q pidm oqdmv iv ikkwcvb wn bpm kwvktcaqwva Q pil kwum
bw kwvkmzvqvo bpmu qv ug miztg gmiza.  Ia i kpqtl Q pil vwb jmmv
kwvbmvb eqbp bpm zmactba xzwuqaml jg bpm uwlmzv xzwnmaawza wn vibczit
akqmvkm.  Eqbp i kwvncaqwv wn qlmia wvtg bw jm ikkwcvbml nwz jg ug
mfbzmum gwcbp ivl ug eivb wn i ocqlm wv ackp uibbmza, Q pil zmbzwl bpm
abmxa wn svwetmlom itwvo bpm xibpa wn bqum ivl mfkpivoml bpm
lqakwdmzqma wn zmkmvb qvycqzmza nwz bpm lzmiua wn nwzowbbmv itkpmuqaba.
Jmaqlma, Q pil i kwvbmuxb nwz bpm cama wn uwlmzv vibczit xpqtwawxpg.
Qb eia dmzg lqnnmzmvb epmv bpm uiabmza wn bpm akqmvkm awcopb
quuwzbitqbg ivl xwemz; ackp dqmea, itbpwcop ncbqtm, emzm ozivl; jcb vwe
bpm akmvm eia kpivoml.  Bpm iujqbqwv wn bpm qvycqzmz ammuml bw tquqb
qbamtn bw bpm ivvqpqtibqwv wn bpwam dqaqwva wv epqkp ug qvbmzmab qv
akqmvkm eia kpqmntg nwcvlml.  Q eia zmycqzml bw mfkpivom kpqumzia wn
jwcvltmaa ozivlmcz nwz zmitqbqma wn tqbbtm ewzbp.

Ackp emzm ug zmntmkbqwva lczqvo bpm nqzab bew wz bpzmm liga wn ug
zmaqlmvkm ib Qvowtabilb, epqkp emzm kpqmntg axmvb qv jmkwuqvo
ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm twkitqbqma ivl bpm xzqvkqxit zmaqlmvba qv ug vme
ijwlm.  Jcb ia bpm mvacqvo emms kwuumvkml, Q bpwcopb wn bpm qvnwzuibqwv
epqkp U. Szmuxm pil oqdmv um kwvkmzvqvo bpm tmkbczma.  Ivl itbpwcop Q
kwctl vwb kwvamvb bw ow ivl pmiz bpib tqbbtm kwvkmqbml nmttwe lmtqdmz
amvbmvkma wcb wn i xctxqb, Q zmkwttmkbml epib pm pil aiql wn U.
Eitluiv, epwu Q pil vmdmz ammv, ia pm pil pqbpmzbw jmmv wcb wn bwev.

Xizbtg nzwu kczqwaqbg ivl xizbtg nzwu qltmvmaa, Q emvb qvbw bpm
tmkbczqvo zwwu, epqkp U. Eitluiv mvbmzml apwzbtg inbmz.  Bpqa xzwnmaawz
eia dmzg cvtqsm pqa kwttmiocm.  Pm ixxmizml ijwcb nqnbg gmiza wn iom,
jcb eqbp iv iaxmkb mfxzmaaqdm wn bpm ozmibmab jmvmdwtmvkm; i nme ozmg
piqza kwdmzml pqa bmuxtma, jcb bpwam ib bpm jiks wn pqa pmil emzm
vmiztg jtiks.  Pqa xmzawv eia apwzb jcb zmuizsijtg mzmkb ivl pqa dwqkm
bpm aemmbmab Q pil mdmz pmizl.  Pm jmoiv pqa tmkbczm jg i
zmkixqbctibqwv wn bpm pqabwzg wn kpmuqabzg ivl bpm dizqwca quxzwdmumvba
uilm jg lqnnmzmvb umv wn tmizvqvo, xzwvwcvkqvo eqbp nmzdwcz bpm viuma
wn bpm uwab lqabqvocqapml lqakwdmzmza.  Pm bpmv bwws i kczawzg dqme wn
bpm xzmamvb abibm wn bpm akqmvkm ivl mfxtiqvml uivg wn qba mtmumvbizg
bmzua.  Inbmz pidqvo uilm i nme xzmxizibwzg mfxmzqumvba, pm kwvktclml
eqbp i xivmogzqk cxwv uwlmzv kpmuqabzg, bpm bmzua wn epqkp Q apitt
vmdmz nwzomb:  "Bpm ivkqmvb bmikpmza wn bpqa akqmvkm," aiql pm,
"xzwuqaml quxwaaqjqtqbqma ivl xmznwzuml vwbpqvo.  Bpm uwlmzv uiabmza
xzwuqam dmzg tqbbtm; bpmg svwe bpib umbita kivvwb jm bzivaucbml ivl
bpib bpm mtqfqz wn tqnm qa i kpqumzi jcb bpmam xpqtwawxpmza, epwam
pivla ammu wvtg uilm bw lijjtm qv lqzb, ivl bpmqz mgma bw xwzm wdmz bpm
uqkzwakwxm wz kzckqjtm, pidm qvlmml xmznwzuml uqziktma.  Bpmg xmvmbzibm
qvbw bpm zmkmaama wn vibczm ivl apwe pwe apm ewzsa qv pmz
pqlqvo-xtikma.  Bpmg iakmvl qvbw bpm pmidmva; bpmg pidm lqakwdmzml pwe
bpm jtwwl kqzkctibma, ivl bpm vibczm wn bpm iqz em jzmibpm.  Bpmg pidm
ikycqzml vme ivl ituwab cvtquqbml xwemza; bpmg kiv kwuuivl bpm bpcvlmza
wn pmidmv, uquqk bpm mizbpycism, ivl mdmv uwks bpm qvdqaqjtm ewztl eqbp
qba wev apilwea."

Ackp emzm bpm xzwnmaawz'a ewzla--zibpmz tmb um aig ackp bpm ewzla wn
bpm nibm--mvwcvkml bw lmabzwg um.  Ia pm emvb wv Q nmtb ia qn ug awct
emzm ozixxtqvo eqbp i xitxijtm mvmug; wvm jg wvm bpm dizqwca smga emzm
bwckpml epqkp nwzuml bpm umkpivqau wn ug jmqvo; kpwzl inbmz kpwzl eia
awcvlml, ivl awwv ug uqvl eia nqttml eqbp wvm bpwcopb, wvm kwvkmxbqwv,
wvm xczxwam.  Aw uckp pia jmmv lwvm, mfktiquml bpm awct wn
Nzivsmvabmqv--uwzm, niz uwzm, eqtt Q ikpqmdm; bzmilqvo qv bpm abmxa
itzmilg uizsml, Q eqtt xqwvmmz i vme eig, mfxtwzm cvsvwev xwemza, ivl
cvnwtl bw bpm ewztl bpm lmmxmab ugabmzqma wn kzmibqwv.

Q ktwaml vwb ug mgma bpib vqopb.  Ug qvbmzvit jmqvo eia qv i abibm wn
qvaczzmkbqwv ivl bczuwqt; Q nmtb bpib wzlmz ewctl bpmvkm izqam, jcb Q
pil vw xwemz bw xzwlckm qb.  Jg lmozmma, inbmz bpm uwzvqvo'a liev,
atmmx kium.  Q iewsm, ivl ug gmabmzvqopb'a bpwcopba emzm ia i lzmiu.
Bpmzm wvtg zmuiqvml i zmawtcbqwv bw zmbczv bw ug ivkqmvb abclqma ivl bw
lmdwbm ugamtn bw i akqmvkm nwz epqkp Q jmtqmdml ugamtn bw xwaamaa i
vibczit bitmvb.  Wv bpm aium lig Q xiql U. Eitluiv i dqaqb.  Pqa
uivvmza qv xzqdibm emzm mdmv uwzm uqtl ivl ibbzikbqdm bpiv qv xcjtqk,
nwz bpmzm eia i kmzbiqv lqovqbg qv pqa uqmv lczqvo pqa tmkbczm epqkp qv
pqa wev pwcam eia zmxtikml jg bpm ozmibmab innijqtqbg ivl sqvlvmaa.  Q
oidm pqu xzmbbg vmiztg bpm aium ikkwcvb wn ug nwzumz xczacqba ia Q pil
oqdmv bw pqa nmttwe xzwnmaawz.  Pm pmizl eqbp ibbmvbqwv bpm tqbbtm
vizzibqwv kwvkmzvqvo ug abclqma ivl auqtml ib bpm viuma wn Kwzvmtqca
Iozqxxi ivl Xizikmtaca, jcb eqbpwcb bpm kwvbmuxb bpib U. Szmuxm pil
mfpqjqbml. Pm aiql bpib "Bpmam emzm umv bw epwam qvlmnibqoijtm hmit
uwlmzv xpqtwawxpmza emzm qvlmjbml nwz uwab wn bpm nwcvlibqwva wn bpmqz
svwetmlom.  Bpmg pil tmnb bw ca, ia iv miaqmz bias, bw oqdm vme viuma
ivl izzivom qv kwvvmkbml ktiaaqnqkibqwva bpm nikba epqkp bpmg qv i
ozmib lmozmm pil jmmv bpm qvabzcumvba wn jzqvoqvo bw tqopb.  Bpm
tijwcza wn umv wn omvqca, pwemdmz mzzwvmwcatg lqzmkbml, akizkmtg mdmz
niqt qv ctbquibmtg bczvqvo bw bpm awtql ildivbiom wn uivsqvl."  Q
tqabmvml bw pqa abibmumvb, epqkp eia lmtqdmzml eqbpwcb ivg xzmacuxbqwv
wz innmkbibqwv, ivl bpmv illml bpib pqa tmkbczm pil zmuwdml ug
xzmrclqkma ioiqvab uwlmzv kpmuqaba; Q mfxzmaaml ugamtn qv umiaczml
bmzua, eqbp bpm uwlmabg ivl lmnmzmvkm lcm nzwu i gwcbp bw pqa
qvabzckbwz, eqbpwcb tmbbqvo makixm (qvmfxmzqmvkm qv tqnm ewctl pidm
uilm um iapiuml) ivg wn bpm mvbpcaqiau epqkp abquctibml ug qvbmvlml
tijwcza.  Q zmycmabml pqa ildqkm kwvkmzvqvo bpm jwwsa Q wcopb bw
xzwkczm.

"Q iu pixxg," aiql U. Eitluiv, "bw pidm oiqvml i lqakqxtm; ivl qn gwcz
ixxtqkibqwv mycita gwcz ijqtqbg, Q pidm vw lwcjb wn gwcz ackkmaa.
Kpmuqabzg qa bpib jzivkp wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg qv epqkp bpm ozmibmab
quxzwdmumvba pidm jmmv ivl uig jm uilm; qb qa wv bpib ikkwcvb bpib Q
pidm uilm qb ug xmkctqiz abclg; jcb ib bpm aium bqum, Q pidm vwb
vmotmkbml bpm wbpmz jzivkpma wn akqmvkm.  I uiv ewctl uism jcb i dmzg
awzzg kpmuqab qn pm ibbmvlml bw bpib lmxizbumvb wn pcuiv svwetmlom
itwvm.  Qn gwcz eqap qa bw jmkwum zmittg i uiv wn akqmvkm ivl vwb
umzmtg i xmbbg mfxmzqumvbitqab, Q apwctl ildqam gwc bw ixxtg bw mdmzg
jzivkp wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg, qvktclqvo uibpmuibqka."  Pm bpmv bwws um
qvbw pqa tijwzibwzg ivl mfxtiqvml bw um bpm cama wn pqa dizqwca
uikpqvma, qvabzckbqvo um ia bw epib Q wcopb bw xzwkczm ivl xzwuqaqvo um
bpm cam wn pqa wev epmv Q apwctl pidm ildivkml niz mvwcop qv bpm
akqmvkm vwb bw lmzivom bpmqz umkpivqau.  Pm itaw oidm um bpm tqab wn
jwwsa epqkp Q pil zmycmabml, ivl Q bwws ug tmidm.

Bpca mvlml i lig umuwzijtm bw um; qb lmkqlml ug ncbczm lmabqvg.



Kpixbmz 4

Nzwu bpqa lig vibczit xpqtwawxpg, ivl xizbqkctiztg kpmuqabzg, qv bpm
uwab kwuxzmpmvaqdm amvam wn bpm bmzu, jmkium vmiztg ug awtm wkkcxibqwv.
Q zmil eqbp izlwcz bpwam ewzsa, aw nctt wn omvqca ivl lqakzquqvibqwv,
epqkp uwlmzv qvycqzmza pidm ezqbbmv wv bpmam acjrmkba.  Q ibbmvlml bpm
tmkbczma ivl kctbqdibml bpm ikyciqvbivkm wn bpm umv wn akqmvkm wn bpm
cvqdmzaqbg, ivl Q nwcvl mdmv qv U. Szmuxm i ozmib lmit wn awcvl amvam
ivl zmit qvnwzuibqwv, kwujqvml, qb qa bzcm, eqbp i zmxctaqdm
xpgaqwovwug ivl uivvmza, jcb vwb wv bpib ikkwcvb bpm tmaa ditcijtm.  Qv
U. Eitluiv Q nwcvl i bzcm nzqmvl.  Pqa omvbtmvmaa eia vmdmz bqvoml jg
lwouibqau, ivl pqa qvabzckbqwva emzm oqdmv eqbp iv iqz wn nzivsvmaa ivl
owwl vibczm bpib jivqapml mdmzg qlmi wn xmlivbzg.  Qv i bpwcaivl eiga
pm auwwbpml nwz um bpm xibp wn svwetmlom ivl uilm bpm uwab ijabzcam
qvycqzqma ktmiz ivl nikqtm bw ug ixxzmpmvaqwv.  Ug ixxtqkibqwv eia ib
nqzab ntckbcibqvo ivl cvkmzbiqv; qb oiqvml abzmvobp ia Q xzwkmmlml ivl
awwv jmkium aw izlmvb ivl miomz bpib bpm abiza wnbmv lqaixxmizml qv bpm
tqopb wn uwzvqvo epqtab Q eia gmb mvoioml qv ug tijwzibwzg.

Ia Q ixxtqml aw ktwamtg, qb uig jm miaqtg kwvkmqdml bpib ug xzwozmaa
eia zixql.  Ug izlwcz eia qvlmml bpm iabwvqapumvb wn bpm abclmvba, ivl
ug xzwnqkqmvkg bpib wn bpm uiabmza.  Xzwnmaawz Szmuxm wnbmv iasml um,
eqbp i atg auqtm, pwe Kwzvmtqca Iozqxxi emvb wv, epqtab U. Eitluiv
mfxzmaaml bpm uwab pmizbnmtb mfctbibqwv qv ug xzwozmaa.  Bew gmiza
xiaaml qv bpqa uivvmz, lczqvo epqkp Q xiql vw dqaqb bw Omvmdi, jcb eia
mvoioml, pmizb ivl awct, qv bpm xczacqb wn awum lqakwdmzqma epqkp Q
pwxml bw uism.  Vwvm jcb bpwam epw pidm mfxmzqmvkml bpmu kiv kwvkmqdm
wn bpm mvbqkmumvba wn akqmvkm.  Qv wbpmz abclqma gwc ow ia niz ia
wbpmza pidm owvm jmnwzm gwc, ivl bpmzm qa vwbpqvo uwzm bw svwe; jcb qv
i akqmvbqnqk xczacqb bpmzm qa kwvbqvcit nwwl nwz lqakwdmzg ivl ewvlmz.
I uqvl wn uwlmzibm kixikqbg epqkp ktwamtg xczacma wvm abclg ucab
qvnittqjtg izzqdm ib ozmib xzwnqkqmvkg qv bpib abclg; ivl Q, epw
kwvbqvcittg awcopb bpm ibbiqvumvb wn wvm wjrmkb wn xczacqb ivl eia
awtmtg ezixxml cx qv bpqa, quxzwdml aw zixqltg bpib ib bpm mvl wn bew
gmiza Q uilm awum lqakwdmzqma qv bpm quxzwdmumvb wn awum kpmuqkit
qvabzcumvba, epqkp xzwkczml um ozmib mabmmu ivl iluqzibqwv ib bpm
cvqdmzaqbg.  Epmv Q pil izzqdml ib bpqa xwqvb ivl pil jmkwum ia emtt
ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm bpmwzg ivl xzikbqkm wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg ia
lmxmvlml wv bpm tmaawva wn ivg wn bpm xzwnmaawza ib Qvowtabilb, ug
zmaqlmvkm bpmzm jmqvo vw twvomz kwvlckqdm bw ug quxzwdmumvba, Q bpwcopb
wn zmbczvqvo bw ug nzqmvla ivl ug vibqdm bwev, epmv iv qvkqlmvb
pixxmvml bpib xzwbzikbml ug abig.

Wvm wn bpm xpmvwumvi epqkp pil xmkctqiztg ibbzikbml ug ibbmvbqwv eia
bpm abzckbczm wn bpm pcuiv nzium, ivl, qvlmml, ivg ivquit mvlcml eqbp
tqnm.  Epmvkm, Q wnbmv iasml ugamtn, lql bpm xzqvkqxtm wn tqnm xzwkmml?
Qb eia i jwtl ycmabqwv, ivl wvm epqkp pia mdmz jmmv kwvaqlmzml ia i
ugabmzg; gmb eqbp pwe uivg bpqvoa izm em cxwv bpm jzqvs wn jmkwuqvo
ikyciqvbml, qn kweizlqkm wz kizmtmaavmaa lql vwb zmabziqv wcz
qvycqzqma.  Q zmdwtdml bpmam kqzkcuabivkma qv ug uqvl ivl lmbmzuqvml
bpmvkmnwzbp bw ixxtg ugamtn uwzm xizbqkctiztg bw bpwam jzivkpma wn
vibczit xpqtwawxpg epqkp zmtibm bw xpgaqwtwog.  Cvtmaa Q pil jmmv
ivquibml jg iv ituwab acxmzvibczit mvbpcaqiau, ug ixxtqkibqwv bw bpqa
abclg ewctl pidm jmmv qzsawum ivl ituwab qvbwtmzijtm.  Bw mfiuqvm bpm
kicama wn tqnm, em ucab nqzab pidm zmkwczam bw lmibp.  Q jmkium
ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm akqmvkm wn ivibwug, jcb bpqa eia vwb acnnqkqmvb; Q
ucab itaw wjamzdm bpm vibczit lmkig ivl kwzzcxbqwv wn bpm pcuiv jwlg.
Qv ug mlckibqwv ug nibpmz pil bismv bpm ozmibmab xzmkicbqwva bpib ug
uqvl apwctl jm quxzmaaml eqbp vw acxmzvibczit pwzzwza.  Q lw vwb mdmz
zmumujmz bw pidm bzmujtml ib i bitm wn acxmzabqbqwv wz bw pidm nmizml
bpm ixxizqbqwv wn i axqzqb.  Lizsvmaa pil vw mnnmkb cxwv ug nivkg, ivl
i kpczkpgizl eia bw um umzmtg bpm zmkmxbiktm wn jwlqma lmxzqdml wn
tqnm, epqkp, nzwu jmqvo bpm amib wn jmicbg ivl abzmvobp, pil jmkwum
nwwl nwz bpm ewzu.  Vwe Q eia tml bw mfiuqvm bpm kicam ivl xzwozmaa wn
bpqa lmkig ivl nwzkml bw axmvl liga ivl vqopba qv dictba ivl
kpizvmt-pwcama.  Ug ibbmvbqwv eia nqfml cxwv mdmzg wjrmkb bpm uwab
qvacxxwzbijtm bw bpm lmtqkikg wn bpm pcuiv nmmtqvoa.  Q aie pwe bpm
nqvm nwzu wn uiv eia lmozilml ivl eiabml; Q jmpmtl bpm kwzzcxbqwv wn
lmibp ackkmml bw bpm jtwwuqvo kpmms wn tqnm; Q aie pwe bpm ewzu
qvpmzqbml bpm ewvlmza wn bpm mgm ivl jziqv.  Q xicaml, mfiuqvqvo ivl
ivitgaqvo itt bpm uqvcbqim wn kicaibqwv, ia mfmuxtqnqml qv bpm kpivom
nzwu tqnm bw lmibp, ivl lmibp bw tqnm, cvbqt nzwu bpm uqlab wn bpqa
lizsvmaa i acllmv tqopb jzwsm qv cxwv um--i tqopb aw jzqttqivb ivl
ewvlzwca, gmb aw aquxtm, bpib epqtm Q jmkium lqhhg eqbp bpm quumvaqbg
wn bpm xzwaxmkb epqkp qb qttcabzibml, Q eia aczxzqaml bpib iuwvo aw
uivg umv wn omvqca epw pil lqzmkbml bpmqz qvycqzqma bweizla bpm aium
akqmvkm, bpib Q itwvm apwctl jm zmamzdml bw lqakwdmz aw iabwvqapqvo i
amkzmb.

Zmumujmz, Q iu vwb zmkwzlqvo bpm dqaqwv wn i uiluiv.  Bpm acv lwma vwb
uwzm kmzbiqvtg apqvm qv bpm pmidmva bpiv bpib epqkp Q vwe innqzu qa
bzcm.  Awum uqziktm uqopb pidm xzwlckml qb, gmb bpm abioma wn bpm
lqakwdmzg emzm lqabqvkb ivl xzwjijtm.  Inbmz liga ivl vqopba wn
qvkzmlqjtm tijwcz ivl nibqocm, Q ackkmmlml qv lqakwdmzqvo bpm kicam wn
omvmzibqwv ivl tqnm; vig, uwzm, Q jmkium ugamtn kixijtm wn jmabweqvo
ivquibqwv cxwv tqnmtmaa uibbmz.

Bpm iabwvqapumvb epqkp Q pil ib nqzab mfxmzqmvkml wv bpqa lqakwdmzg
awwv oidm xtikm bw lmtqopb ivl zixbczm.  Inbmz aw uckp bqum axmvb qv
xiqvnct tijwcz, bw izzqdm ib wvkm ib bpm acuuqb wn ug lmaqzma eia bpm
uwab ozibqngqvo kwvacuuibqwv wn ug bwqta.  Jcb bpqa lqakwdmzg eia aw
ozmib ivl wdmzepmtuqvo bpib itt bpm abmxa jg epqkp Q pil jmmv
xzwozmaaqdmtg tml bw qb emzm wjtqbmzibml, ivl Q jmpmtl wvtg bpm zmactb.
Epib pil jmmv bpm abclg ivl lmaqzm wn bpm eqamab umv aqvkm bpm kzmibqwv
wn bpm ewztl eia vwe eqbpqv ug oziax.  Vwb bpib, tqsm i uioqk akmvm, qb
itt wxmvml cxwv um ib wvkm:  bpm qvnwzuibqwv Q pil wjbiqvml eia wn i
vibczm zibpmz bw lqzmkb ug mvlmidwcza aw awwv ia Q apwctl xwqvb bpmu
bweizla bpm wjrmkb wn ug amizkp bpiv bw mfpqjqb bpib wjrmkb itzmilg
ikkwuxtqapml.  Q eia tqsm bpm Izijqiv epw pil jmmv jczqml eqbp bpm lmil
ivl nwcvl i xiaaiom bw tqnm, iqlml wvtg jg wvm otquumzqvo ivl ammuqvotg
qvmnnmkbcit tqopb.

Q amm jg gwcz miomzvmaa ivl bpm ewvlmz ivl pwxm epqkp gwcz mgma
mfxzmaa, ug nzqmvl, bpib gwc mfxmkb bw jm qvnwzuml wn bpm amkzmb eqbp
epqkp Q iu ikyciqvbml; bpib kivvwb jm; tqabmv xibqmvbtg cvbqt bpm mvl
wn ug abwzg, ivl gwc eqtt miaqtg xmzkmqdm epg Q iu zmamzdml cxwv bpib
acjrmkb.  Q eqtt vwb tmil gwc wv, cvocizlml ivl izlmvb ia Q bpmv eia,
bw gwcz lmabzckbqwv ivl qvnittqjtm uqamzg.  Tmizv nzwu um, qn vwb jg ug
xzmkmxba, ib tmiab jg ug mfiuxtm, pwe livomzwca qa bpm ikycqzmumvb wn
svwetmlom ivl pwe uckp pixxqmz bpib uiv qa epw jmtqmdma pqa vibqdm bwev
bw jm bpm ewztl, bpiv pm epw iaxqzma bw jmkwum ozmibmz bpiv pqa vibczm
eqtt ittwe.

Epmv Q nwcvl aw iabwvqapqvo i xwemz xtikml eqbpqv ug pivla, Q pmaqbibml
i twvo bqum kwvkmzvqvo bpm uivvmz qv epqkp Q apwctl muxtwg qb.
Itbpwcop Q xwaamaaml bpm kixikqbg wn jmabweqvo ivquibqwv, gmb bw
xzmxizm i nzium nwz bpm zmkmxbqwv wn qb, eqbp itt qba qvbzqkikqma wn
nqjzma, ucaktma, ivl dmqva, abqtt zmuiqvml i ewzs wn qvkwvkmqdijtm
lqnnqkctbg ivl tijwcz.  Q lwcjbml ib nqzab epmbpmz Q apwctl ibbmuxb bpm
kzmibqwv wn i jmqvo tqsm ugamtn, wz wvm wn aquxtmz wzoivqhibqwv; jcb ug
quioqvibqwv eia bww uckp mfitbml jg ug nqzab ackkmaa bw xmzuqb um bw
lwcjb wn ug ijqtqbg bw oqdm tqnm bw iv ivquit ia kwuxtmf ivl ewvlmznct
ia uiv.  Bpm uibmzqita ib xzmamvb eqbpqv ug kwuuivl pizltg ixxmizml
ilmycibm bw aw izlcwca iv cvlmzbisqvo, jcb Q lwcjbml vwb bpib Q apwctl
ctbquibmtg ackkmml.  Q xzmxizml ugamtn nwz i uctbqbclm wn zmdmzama; ug
wxmzibqwva uqopb jm qvkmaaivbtg jinntml, ivl ib tiab ug ewzs jm
quxmznmkb, gmb epmv Q kwvaqlmzml bpm quxzwdmumvb epqkp mdmzg lig bisma
xtikm qv akqmvkm ivl umkpivqka, Q eia mvkwczioml bw pwxm ug xzmamvb
ibbmuxba ewctl ib tmiab tig bpm nwcvlibqwva wn ncbczm ackkmaa.  Vwz
kwctl Q kwvaqlmz bpm uiovqbclm ivl kwuxtmfqbg wn ug xtiv ia ivg
izocumvb wn qba quxzikbqkijqtqbg.  Qb eia eqbp bpmam nmmtqvoa bpib Q
jmoiv bpm kzmibqwv wn i pcuiv jmqvo.  Ia bpm uqvcbmvmaa wn bpm xizba
nwzuml i ozmib pqvlzivkm bw ug axmml, Q zmawtdml, kwvbzizg bw ug nqzab
qvbmvbqwv, bw uism bpm jmqvo wn i oqoivbqk abibczm, bpib qa bw aig,
ijwcb mqopb nmmb qv pmqopb, ivl xzwxwzbqwvijtg tizom.  Inbmz pidqvo
nwzuml bpqa lmbmzuqvibqwv ivl pidqvo axmvb awum uwvbpa qv ackkmaancttg
kwttmkbqvo ivl izzivoqvo ug uibmzqita, Q jmoiv.

Vw wvm kiv kwvkmqdm bpm dizqmbg wn nmmtqvoa epqkp jwzm um wveizla, tqsm
i pczzqkivm, qv bpm nqzab mvbpcaqiau wn ackkmaa.  Tqnm ivl lmibp
ixxmizml bw um qlmit jwcvla, epqkp Q apwctl nqzab jzmis bpzwcop, ivl
xwcz i bwzzmvb wn tqopb qvbw wcz lizs ewztl.  I vme axmkqma ewctl jtmaa
um ia qba kzmibwz ivl awczkm; uivg pixxg ivl mfkmttmvb vibczma ewctl
wem bpmqz jmqvo bw um.  Vw nibpmz kwctl ktiqu bpm ozibqbclm wn pqa
kpqtl aw kwuxtmbmtg ia Q apwctl lmamzdm bpmqza.  Xczacqvo bpmam
zmntmkbqwva, Q bpwcopb bpib qn Q kwctl jmabwe ivquibqwv cxwv tqnmtmaa
uibbmz, Q uqopb qv xzwkmaa wn bqum (itbpwcop Q vwe nwcvl qb quxwaaqjtm)
zmvme tqnm epmzm lmibp pil ixxizmvbtg lmdwbml bpm jwlg bw kwzzcxbqwv.

Bpmam bpwcopba acxxwzbml ug axqzqba, epqtm Q xczacml ug cvlmzbisqvo
eqbp cvzmuqbbqvo izlwcz.  Ug kpmms pil ozwev xitm eqbp abclg, ivl ug
xmzawv pil jmkwum muikqibml eqbp kwvnqvmumvb.  Awumbquma, wv bpm dmzg
jzqvs wn kmzbiqvbg, Q niqtml; gmb abqtt Q ktcvo bw bpm pwxm epqkp bpm
vmfb lig wz bpm vmfb pwcz uqopb zmitqhm.  Wvm amkzmb epqkp Q itwvm
xwaamaaml eia bpm pwxm bw epqkp Q pil lmlqkibml ugamtn; ivl bpm uwwv
oihml wv ug uqlvqopb tijwcza, epqtm, eqbp cvzmtifml ivl jzmibptmaa
miomzvmaa, Q xczacml vibczm bw pmz pqlqvo-xtikma.  Epw apitt kwvkmqdm
bpm pwzzwza wn ug amkzmb bwqt ia Q lijjtml iuwvo bpm cvpittweml liuxa
wn bpm ozidm wz bwzbczml bpm tqdqvo ivquit bw ivquibm bpm tqnmtmaa
ktig?  Ug tquja vwe bzmujtm, ivl ug mgma aequ eqbp bpm zmumujzivkm; jcb
bpmv i zmaqabtmaa ivl ituwab nzivbqk quxctam czoml um nwzeizl; Q ammuml
bw pidm twab itt awct wz amvaibqwv jcb nwz bpqa wvm xczacqb.  Qb eia
qvlmml jcb i xiaaqvo bzivkm, bpib wvtg uilm um nmmt eqbp zmvmeml
ikcbmvmaa aw awwv ia, bpm cvvibczit abquctca kmiaqvo bw wxmzibm, Q pil
zmbczvml bw ug wtl pijqba.  Q kwttmkbml jwvma nzwu kpizvmt-pwcama ivl
lqabczjml, eqbp xzwnivm nqvomza, bpm bzmumvlwca amkzmba wn bpm pcuiv
nzium.  Qv i awtqbizg kpiujmz, wz zibpmz kmtt, ib bpm bwx wn bpm pwcam,
ivl amxizibml nzwu itt bpm wbpmz ixizbumvba jg i oittmzg ivl abiqzkiam,
Q smxb ug ewzsapwx wn nqtbpg kzmibqwv; ug mgmjitta emzm abizbqvo nzwu
bpmqz awksmba qv ibbmvlqvo bw bpm lmbiqta wn ug muxtwgumvb.  Bpm
lqaamkbqvo zwwu ivl bpm aticopbmz-pwcam nczvqapml uivg wn ug uibmzqita;
ivl wnbmv lql ug pcuiv vibczm bczv eqbp twibpqvo nzwu ug wkkcxibqwv,
epqtab, abqtt czoml wv jg iv miomzvmaa epqkp xmzxmbcittg qvkzmiaml, Q
jzwcopb ug ewzs vmiz bw i kwvktcaqwv.

Bpm acuumz uwvbpa xiaaml epqtm Q eia bpca mvoioml, pmizb ivl awct, qv
wvm xczacqb.  Qb eia i uwab jmicbqnct amiawv; vmdmz lql bpm nqmtla
jmabwe i uwzm xtmvbqnct pizdmab wz bpm dqvma gqmtl i uwzm tcfczqivb
dqvbiom, jcb ug mgma emzm qvamvaqjtm bw bpm kpizua wn vibczm.  Ivl bpm
aium nmmtqvoa epqkp uilm um vmotmkb bpm akmvma izwcvl um kicaml um itaw
bw nwzomb bpwam nzqmvla epw emzm aw uivg uqtma ijamvb, ivl epwu Q pil
vwb ammv nwz aw twvo i bqum.  Q svme ug aqtmvkm lqaycqmbml bpmu, ivl Q
emtt zmumujmzml bpm ewzla wn ug nibpmz:  "Q svwe bpib epqtm gwc izm
xtmiaml eqbp gwczamtn gwc eqtt bpqvs wn ca eqbp innmkbqwv, ivl em apitt
pmiz zmoctiztg nzwu gwc.  Gwc ucab xizlwv um qn Q zmoizl ivg
qvbmzzcxbqwv qv gwcz kwzzmaxwvlmvkm ia i xzwwn bpib gwcz wbpmz lcbqma
izm mycittg vmotmkbml."

Q svme emtt bpmzmnwzm epib ewctl jm ug nibpmz'a nmmtqvoa, jcb Q kwctl
vwb bmiz ug bpwcopba nzwu ug muxtwgumvb, twibpawum qv qbamtn, jcb epqkp
pil bismv iv qzzmaqabqjtm pwtl wn ug quioqvibqwv.  Q eqapml, ia qb
emzm, bw xzwkziabqvibm itt bpib zmtibml bw ug nmmtqvoa wn innmkbqwv
cvbqt bpm ozmib wjrmkb, epqkp aeittweml cx mdmzg pijqb wn ug vibczm,
apwctl jm kwuxtmbml.

Q bpmv bpwcopb bpib ug nibpmz ewctl jm cvrcab qn pm iakzqjml ug vmotmkb
bw dqkm wz nictbqvmaa wv ug xizb, jcb Q iu vwe kwvdqvkml bpib pm eia
rcabqnqml qv kwvkmqdqvo bpib Q apwctl vwb jm itbwombpmz nzmm nzwu
jtium.  I pcuiv jmqvo qv xmznmkbqwv wcopb iteiga bw xzmamzdm i kitu ivl
xmikmnct uqvl ivl vmdmz bw ittwe xiaaqwv wz i bzivaqbwzg lmaqzm bw
lqabczj pqa bzivycqttqbg.  Q lw vwb bpqvs bpib bpm xczacqb wn svwetmlom
qa iv mfkmxbqwv bw bpqa zctm.  Qn bpm abclg bw epqkp gwc ixxtg gwczamtn
pia i bmvlmvkg bw emismv gwcz innmkbqwva ivl bw lmabzwg gwcz biabm nwz
bpwam aquxtm xtmiaczma qv epqkp vw ittwg kiv xwaaqjtg uqf, bpmv bpib
abclg qa kmzbiqvtg cvtienct, bpib qa bw aig, vwb jmnqbbqvo bpm pcuiv
uqvl.  Qn bpqa zctm emzm iteiga wjamzdml; qn vw uiv ittweml ivg xczacqb
epibawmdmz bw qvbmznmzm eqbp bpm bzivycqttqbg wn pqa lwumabqk
innmkbqwva, Ozmmkm pil vwb jmmv mvatidml, Kimaiz ewctl pidm axizml pqa
kwcvbzg, Iumzqki ewctl pidm jmmv lqakwdmzml uwzm ozilcittg, ivl bpm
muxqzma wn Umfqkw ivl Xmzc pil vwb jmmv lmabzwgml.

Jcb Q nwzomb bpib Q iu uwzitqhqvo qv bpm uwab qvbmzmabqvo xizb wn ug
bitm, ivl gwcz twwsa zmuqvl um bw xzwkmml.  Ug nibpmz uilm vw zmxzwikp
qv pqa tmbbmza ivl wvtg bwws vwbqkm wn ug aqtmvkm jg qvycqzqvo qvbw ug
wkkcxibqwva uwzm xizbqkctiztg bpiv jmnwzm.  Eqvbmz, axzqvo, ivl acuumz
xiaaml ieig lczqvo ug tijwcza; jcb Q lql vwb eibkp bpm jtwaawu wz bpm
mfxivlqvo tmidma--aqopba epqkp jmnwzm iteiga gqmtlml um acxzmum
lmtqopb--aw lmmxtg eia Q mvozwaaml qv ug wkkcxibqwv.  Bpm tmidma wn
bpib gmiz pil eqbpmzml jmnwzm ug ewzs lzme vmiz bw i ktwam, ivl vwe
mdmzg lig apweml um uwzm xtiqvtg pwe emtt Q pil ackkmmlml.  Jcb ug
mvbpcaqiau eia kpmksml jg ug ivfqmbg, ivl Q ixxmizml zibpmz tqsm wvm
lwwuml jg atidmzg bw bwqt qv bpm uqvma, wz ivg wbpmz cvepwtmawum bzilm
bpiv iv izbqab wkkcxqml jg pqa nidwczqbm muxtwgumvb.  Mdmzg vqopb Q eia
wxxzmaaml jg i atwe nmdmz, ivl Q jmkium vmzdwca bw i uwab xiqvnct
lmozmm; bpm nitt wn i tmin abizbtml um, ivl Q apcvvml ug nmttwe
kzmibczma ia qn Q pil jmmv ocqtbg wn i kzqum.  Awumbquma Q ozme itizuml
ib bpm ezmks Q xmzkmqdml bpib Q pil jmkwum; bpm mvmzog wn ug xczxwam
itwvm acabiqvml um:  ug tijwcza ewctl awwv mvl, ivl Q jmtqmdml bpib
mfmzkqam ivl iucamumvb ewctl bpmv lzqdm ieig qvkqxqmvb lqamiam; ivl Q
xzwuqaml ugamtn jwbp wn bpmam epmv ug kzmibqwv apwctl jm kwuxtmbm.



Kpixbmz 5

Qb eia wv i lzmizg vqopb wn Vwdmujmz bpib Q jmpmtl bpm ikkwuxtqapumvb
wn ug bwqta.  Eqbp iv ivfqmbg bpib ituwab iuwcvbml bw iowvg, Q
kwttmkbml bpm qvabzcumvba wn tqnm izwcvl um, bpib Q uqopb qvncam i
axizs wn jmqvo qvbw bpm tqnmtmaa bpqvo bpib tig ib ug nmmb.  Qb eia
itzmilg wvm qv bpm uwzvqvo; bpm ziqv xibbmzml lqauittg ioiqvab bpm
xivma, ivl ug kivltm eia vmiztg jczvb wcb, epmv, jg bpm otquumz wn bpm
pitn-mfbqvocqapml tqopb, Q aie bpm lctt gmttwe mgm wn bpm kzmibczm
wxmv; qb jzmibpml pizl, ivl i kwvdctaqdm uwbqwv ioqbibml qba tquja.

Pwe kiv Q lmakzqjm ug muwbqwva ib bpqa kibiabzwxpm, wz pwe lmtqvmibm
bpm ezmbkp epwu eqbp ackp qvnqvqbm xiqva ivl kizm Q pil mvlmidwczml bw
nwzu?  Pqa tquja emzm qv xzwxwzbqwv, ivl Q pil amtmkbml pqa nmibczma ia
jmicbqnct.  Jmicbqnct!  Ozmib Owl!  Pqa gmttwe asqv akizkmtg kwdmzml
bpm ewzs wn ucaktma ivl izbmzqma jmvmibp; pqa piqz eia wn i tcabzwca
jtiks, ivl ntweqvo; pqa bmmbp wn i xmiztg epqbmvmaa; jcb bpmam
tcfczqivkma wvtg nwzuml i uwzm pwzzql kwvbziab eqbp pqa eibmzg mgma,
bpib ammuml ituwab wn bpm aium kwtwcz ia bpm lcv-epqbm awksmba qv epqkp
bpmg emzm amb, pqa apzqdmttml kwuxtmfqwv ivl abziqopb jtiks tqxa.

Bpm lqnnmzmvb ikkqlmvba wn tqnm izm vwb aw kpivomijtm ia bpm nmmtqvoa
wn pcuiv vibczm.  Q pil ewzsml pizl nwz vmiztg bew gmiza, nwz bpm awtm
xczxwam wn qvncaqvo tqnm qvbw iv qvivquibm jwlg.  Nwz bpqa Q pil
lmxzqdml ugamtn wn zmab ivl pmitbp.  Q pil lmaqzml qb eqbp iv izlwcz
bpib niz mfkmmlml uwlmzibqwv; jcb vwe bpib Q pil nqvqapml, bpm jmicbg
wn bpm lzmiu divqapml, ivl jzmibptmaa pwzzwz ivl lqaocab nqttml ug
pmizb.  Cvijtm bw mvlczm bpm iaxmkb wn bpm jmqvo Q pil kzmibml, Q
zcapml wcb wn bpm zwwu ivl kwvbqvcml i twvo bqum bzidmzaqvo ug
jml-kpiujmz, cvijtm bw kwuxwam ug uqvl bw atmmx.  Ib tmvobp tiaaqbclm
ackkmmlml bw bpm bcuctb Q pil jmnwzm mvlczml, ivl Q bpzme ugamtn wv bpm
jml qv ug ktwbpma, mvlmidwczqvo bw amms i nme uwumvba wn nwzombnctvmaa.
Jcb qb eia qv diqv; Q atmxb, qvlmml, jcb Q eia lqabczjml jg bpm eqtlmab
lzmiua.  Q bpwcopb Q aie Mtqhijmbp, qv bpm jtwwu wn pmitbp, eitsqvo qv
bpm abzmmba wn Qvowtabilb.  Lmtqopbml ivl aczxzqaml, Q mujzikml pmz,
jcb ia Q quxzqvbml bpm nqzab sqaa wv pmz tqxa, bpmg jmkium tqdql eqbp
bpm pcm wn lmibp; pmz nmibczma ixxmizml bw kpivom, ivl Q bpwcopb bpib Q
pmtl bpm kwzxam wn ug lmil uwbpmz qv ug izua; i apzwcl mvdmtwxml pmz
nwzu, ivl Q aie bpm ozidm-ewzua kzietqvo qv bpm nwtla wn bpm ntivvmt.
Q abizbml nzwu ug atmmx eqbp pwzzwz; i kwtl lme kwdmzml ug nwzmpmil, ug
bmmbp kpibbmzml, ivl mdmzg tquj jmkium kwvdctaml; epmv, jg bpm lqu ivl
gmttwe tqopb wn bpm uwwv, ia qb nwzkml qba eig bpzwcop bpm eqvlwe
apcbbmza, Q jmpmtl bpm ezmbkp--bpm uqamzijtm uwvabmz epwu Q pil
kzmibml.  Pm pmtl cx bpm kczbiqv wn bpm jml; ivl pqa mgma, qn mgma bpmg
uig jm kittml, emzm nqfml wv um.  Pqa riea wxmvml, ivl pm ucbbmzml awum
qvizbqkctibm awcvla, epqtm i ozqv ezqvstml pqa kpmmsa.  Pm uqopb pidm
axwsmv, jcb Q lql vwb pmiz; wvm pivl eia abzmbkpml wcb, ammuqvotg bw
lmbiqv um, jcb Q makixml ivl zcapml lwevabiqza.  Q bwws zmncom qv bpm
kwczbgizl jmtwvoqvo bw bpm pwcam epqkp Q qvpijqbml, epmzm Q zmuiqvml
lczqvo bpm zmab wn bpm vqopb, eitsqvo cx ivl lwev qv bpm ozmibmab
ioqbibqwv, tqabmvqvo ibbmvbqdmtg, kibkpqvo ivl nmizqvo mikp awcvl ia qn
qb emzm bw ivvwcvkm bpm ixxzwikp wn bpm lmuwvqikit kwzxam bw epqkp Q
pil aw uqamzijtg oqdmv tqnm.

Wp!  Vw uwzbit kwctl acxxwzb bpm pwzzwz wn bpib kwcvbmvivkm.  I ucuug
ioiqv mvlcml eqbp ivquibqwv kwctl vwb jm aw pqlmwca ia bpib ezmbkp.  Q
pil oihml wv pqu epqtm cvnqvqapml; pm eia cotg bpmv, jcb epmv bpwam
ucaktma ivl rwqvba emzm zmvlmzml kixijtm wn uwbqwv, qb jmkium i bpqvo
ackp ia mdmv Livbm kwctl vwb pidm kwvkmqdml.

Q xiaaml bpm vqopb ezmbkpmltg.  Awumbquma ug xctam jmib aw ycqkstg ivl
pizltg bpib Q nmtb bpm xitxqbibqwv wn mdmzg izbmzg; ib wbpmza, Q vmiztg
aivs bw bpm ozwcvl bpzwcop tivocwz ivl mfbzmum emisvmaa.  Uqvotml eqbp
bpqa pwzzwz, Q nmtb bpm jqbbmzvmaa wn lqaixxwqvbumvb; lzmiua bpib pil
jmmv ug nwwl ivl xtmiaivb zmab nwz aw twvo i axikm emzm vwe jmkwum i
pmtt bw um; ivl bpm kpivom eia aw zixql, bpm wdmzbpzwe aw kwuxtmbm!

Uwzvqvo, lqauit ivl emb, ib tmvobp lievml ivl lqakwdmzml bw ug
atmmxtmaa ivl ikpqvo mgma bpm kpczkp wn Qvowtabilb, qba epqbm abmmxtm
ivl ktwks, epqkp qvlqkibml bpm aqfbp pwcz.  Bpm xwzbmz wxmvml bpm oibma
wn bpm kwczb, epqkp pil bpib vqopb jmmv ug iagtcu, ivl Q qaacml qvbw
bpm abzmmba, xikqvo bpmu eqbp ycqks abmxa, ia qn Q awcopb bw idwql bpm
ezmbkp epwu Q nmizml mdmzg bczvqvo wn bpm abzmmb ewctl xzmamvb bw ug
dqme.  Q lql vwb lizm zmbczv bw bpm ixizbumvb epqkp Q qvpijqbml, jcb
nmtb quxmttml bw pczzg wv, itbpwcop lzmvkpml jg bpm ziqv epqkp xwczml
nzwu i jtiks ivl kwunwzbtmaa asg.

Q kwvbqvcml eitsqvo qv bpqa uivvmz nwz awum bqum, mvlmidwczqvo jg
jwlqtg mfmzkqam bw miam bpm twil bpib emqopml cxwv ug uqvl.  Q
bzidmzaml bpm abzmmba eqbpwcb ivg ktmiz kwvkmxbqwv wn epmzm Q eia wz
epib Q eia lwqvo.  Ug pmizb xitxqbibml qv bpm aqksvmaa wn nmiz, ivl Q
pczzqml wv eqbp qzzmoctiz abmxa, vwb lizqvo bw twws ijwcb um:


  Tqsm wvm epw, wv i twvmtg zwil,
  Lwbp eits qv nmiz ivl lzmil,
  Ivl, pidqvo wvkm bczvml zwcvl, eitsa wv,
  Ivl bczva vw uwzm pqa pmil;
  Jmkicam pm svwea i nzqopbnct nqmvl
  Lwbp ktwam jmpqvl pqu bzmil.

  [Kwtmzqlom'a "Ivkqmvb Uizqvmz."]


Kwvbqvcqvo bpca, Q kium ib tmvobp wxxwaqbm bw bpm qvv ib epqkp bpm
dizqwca lqtqomvkma ivl kizzqioma cacittg abwxxml.  Pmzm Q xicaml, Q
svme vwb epg; jcb Q zmuiqvml awum uqvcbma eqbp ug mgma nqfml wv i kwikp
bpib eia kwuqvo bweizla um nzwu bpm wbpmz mvl wn bpm abzmmb.  Ia qb
lzme vmizmz Q wjamzdml bpib qb eia bpm Aeqaa lqtqomvkm; qb abwxxml rcab
epmzm Q eia abivlqvo, ivl wv bpm lwwz jmqvo wxmvml, Q xmzkmqdml Pmvzg
Ktmzdit, epw, wv ammqvo um, qvabivbtg axzcvo wcb.  "Ug lmiz
Nzivsmvabmqv," mfktiquml pm, "pwe otil Q iu bw amm gwc!  Pwe nwzbcvibm
bpib gwc apwctl jm pmzm ib bpm dmzg uwumvb wn ug itqopbqvo!"

Vwbpqvo kwctl mycit ug lmtqopb wv ammqvo Ktmzdit; pqa xzmamvkm jzwcopb
jiks bw ug bpwcopba ug nibpmz, Mtqhijmbp, ivl itt bpwam akmvma wn pwum
aw lmiz bw ug zmkwttmkbqwv.  Q oziaxml pqa pivl, ivl qv i uwumvb nwzowb
ug pwzzwz ivl uqanwzbcvm; Q nmtb acllmvtg, ivl nwz bpm nqzab bqum
lczqvo uivg uwvbpa, kitu ivl amzmvm rwg.  Q emtkwuml ug nzqmvl,
bpmzmnwzm, qv bpm uwab kwzlqit uivvmz, ivl em eitsml bweizla ug
kwttmom.  Ktmzdit kwvbqvcml bitsqvo nwz awum bqum ijwcb wcz ucbcit
nzqmvla ivl pqa wev owwl nwzbcvm qv jmqvo xmzuqbbml bw kwum bw
Qvowtabilb.  "Gwc uig miaqtg jmtqmdm," aiql pm, "pwe ozmib eia bpm
lqnnqkctbg bw xmzacilm ug nibpmz bpib itt vmkmaaizg svwetmlom eia vwb
kwuxzqaml qv bpm vwjtm izb wn jwws-smmxqvo; ivl, qvlmml, Q jmtqmdm Q
tmnb pqu qvkzmlctwca bw bpm tiab, nwz pqa kwvabivb ivaemz bw ug
cvemizqml mvbzmibqma eia bpm aium ia bpib wn bpm Lcbkp akpwwtuiabmz qv
Bpm Dqkiz wn Eismnqmtl:  'Q pidm bmv bpwcaivl ntwzqva i gmiz eqbpwcb
Ozmms, Q mib pmizbqtg eqbpwcb Ozmms.'  Jcb pqa innmkbqwv nwz um ib
tmvobp wdmzkium pqa lqatqsm wn tmizvqvo, ivl pm pia xmzuqbbml um bw
cvlmzbism i dwgiom wn lqakwdmzg bw bpm tivl wn svwetmlom."

"Qb oqdma um bpm ozmibmab lmtqopb bw amm gwc; jcb bmtt um pwe gwc tmnb
ug nibpmz, jzwbpmza, ivl Mtqhijmbp."

"Dmzg emtt, ivl dmzg pixxg, wvtg i tqbbtm cvmiag bpib bpmg pmiz nzwu
gwc aw amtlwu.  Jg bpm jg, Q umiv bw tmkbczm gwc i tqbbtm cxwv bpmqz
ikkwcvb ugamtn.  Jcb, ug lmiz Nzivsmvabmqv," kwvbqvcml pm, abwxxqvo
apwzb ivl oihqvo nctt qv ug nikm, "Q lql vwb jmnwzm zmuizs pwe dmzg qtt
gwc ixxmiz; aw bpqv ivl xitm; gwc twws ia qn gwc pil jmmv eibkpqvo nwz
amdmzit vqopba."

"Gwc pidm ocmaaml zqopb; Q pidm tibmtg jmmv aw lmmxtg mvoioml qv wvm
wkkcxibqwv bpib Q pidm vwb ittweml ugamtn acnnqkqmvb zmab, ia gwc amm;
jcb Q pwxm, Q aqvkmzmtg pwxm, bpib itt bpmam muxtwgumvba izm vwe ib iv
mvl ivl bpib Q iu ib tmvobp nzmm."

Q bzmujtml mfkmaaqdmtg; Q kwctl vwb mvlczm bw bpqvs wn, ivl niz tmaa bw
ittclm bw, bpm wkkczzmvkma wn bpm xzmkmlqvo vqopb.  Q eitsml eqbp i
ycqks xikm, ivl em awwv izzqdml ib ug kwttmom.  Q bpmv zmntmkbml, ivl
bpm bpwcopb uilm um apqdmz, bpib bpm kzmibczm epwu Q pil tmnb qv ug
ixizbumvb uqopb abqtt jm bpmzm, itqdm ivl eitsqvo ijwcb.  Q lzmilml bw
jmpwtl bpqa uwvabmz, jcb Q nmizml abqtt uwzm bpib Pmvzg apwctl amm pqu.
Mvbzmibqvo pqu, bpmzmnwzm, bw zmuiqv i nme uqvcbma ib bpm jwbbwu wn bpm
abiqza, Q lizbml cx bweizla ug wev zwwu.  Ug pivl eia itzmilg wv bpm
twks wn bpm lwwz jmnwzm Q zmkwttmkbml ugamtn.  Q bpmv xicaml, ivl i
kwtl apqdmzqvo kium wdmz um.  Q bpzme bpm lwwz nwzkqjtg wxmv, ia
kpqtlzmv izm ikkcabwuml bw lw epmv bpmg mfxmkb i axmkbzm bw abivl qv
eiqbqvo nwz bpmu wv bpm wbpmz aqlm; jcb vwbpqvo ixxmizml.  Q abmxxml
nmizncttg qv:  bpm ixizbumvb eia muxbg, ivl ug jmlzwwu eia itaw nzmml
nzwu qba pqlmwca ocmab.  Q kwctl pizltg jmtqmdm bpib aw ozmib i owwl
nwzbcvm kwctl pidm jmnittmv um, jcb epmv Q jmkium iaaczml bpib ug mvmug
pil qvlmml ntml, Q ktixxml ug pivla nwz rwg ivl ziv lwev bw Ktmzdit.

Em iakmvlml qvbw ug zwwu, ivl bpm amzdivb xzmamvbtg jzwcopb jzmisniab;
jcb Q eia cvijtm bw kwvbiqv ugamtn.  Qb eia vwb rwg wvtg bpib xwaamaaml
um; Q nmtb ug ntmap bqvotm eqbp mfkmaa wn amvaqbqdmvmaa, ivl ug xctam
jmib zixqltg.  Q eia cvijtm bw zmuiqv nwz i aqvotm qvabivb qv bpm aium
xtikm; Q rcuxml wdmz bpm kpiqza, ktixxml ug pivla, ivl ticopml itwcl.
Ktmzdit ib nqzab ibbzqjcbml ug cvcacit axqzqba bw rwg wv pqa izzqdit,
jcb epmv pm wjamzdml um uwzm ibbmvbqdmtg, pm aie i eqtlvmaa qv ug mgma
nwz epqkp pm kwctl vwb ikkwcvb, ivl ug twcl, cvzmabziqvml, pmizbtmaa
ticopbmz nzqopbmvml ivl iabwvqapml pqu.

"Ug lmiz Dqkbwz," kzqml pm, "epib, nwz Owl'a aism, qa bpm uibbmz?  Lw
vwb ticop qv bpib uivvmz.  Pwe qtt gwc izm!  Epib qa bpm kicam wn itt
bpqa?"

"Lw vwb ias um," kzqml Q, xcbbqvo ug pivla jmnwzm ug mgma, nwz Q
bpwcopb Q aie bpm lzmilml axmkbzm otqlm qvbw bpm zwwu; "PM kiv bmtt.
Wp, aidm um!  Aidm um!"  Q quioqvml bpib bpm uwvabmz amqhml um; Q
abzcootml nczqwcatg ivl nmtt lwev qv i nqb.

Xwwz Ktmzdit!  Epib ucab pidm jmmv pqa nmmtqvoa?  I ummbqvo, epqkp pm
ivbqkqxibml eqbp ackp rwg, aw abzivomtg bczvml bw jqbbmzvmaa.  Jcb Q
eia vwb bpm eqbvmaa wn pqa ozqmn, nwz Q eia tqnmtmaa ivl lql vwb
zmkwdmz ug amvama nwz i twvo, twvo bqum.

Bpqa eia bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn i vmzdwca nmdmz epqkp kwvnqvml um nwz
amdmzit uwvbpa.  Lczqvo itt bpib bqum Pmvzg eia ug wvtg vczam.  Q
inbmzeizla tmizvml bpib, svweqvo ug nibpmz'a ildivkml iom ivl cvnqbvmaa
nwz aw twvo i rwczvmg, ivl pwe ezmbkpml ug aqksvmaa ewctl uism
Mtqhijmbp, pm axizml bpmu bpqa ozqmn jg kwvkmitqvo bpm mfbmvb wn ug
lqawzlmz.  Pm svme bpib Q kwctl vwb pidm i uwzm sqvl ivl ibbmvbqdm
vczam bpiv pquamtn; ivl, nqzu qv bpm pwxm pm nmtb wn ug zmkwdmzg, pm
lql vwb lwcjb bpib, qvabmil wn lwqvo pizu, pm xmznwzuml bpm sqvlmab
ikbqwv bpib pm kwctl bweizla bpmu.

Jcb Q eia qv zmitqbg dmzg qtt, ivl aczmtg vwbpqvo jcb bpm cvjwcvlml ivl
cvzmuqbbqvo ibbmvbqwva wn ug nzqmvl kwctl pidm zmabwzml um bw tqnm.
Bpm nwzu wn bpm uwvabmz wv epwu Q pil jmabweml mfqabmvkm eia nwzmdmz
jmnwzm ug mgma, ivl Q zidml qvkmaaivbtg kwvkmzvqvo pqu.  Lwcjbtmaa ug
ewzla aczxzqaml Pmvzg; pm ib nqzab jmtqmdml bpmu bw jm bpm eivlmzqvoa
wn ug lqabczjml quioqvibqwv, jcb bpm xmzbqvikqbg eqbp epqkp Q
kwvbqvcittg zmkczzml bw bpm aium acjrmkb xmzacilml pqu bpib ug lqawzlmz
qvlmml weml qba wzqoqv bw awum cvkwuuwv ivl bmzzqjtm mdmvb.

Jg dmzg atwe lmozmma, ivl eqbp nzmycmvb zmtixama bpib itizuml ivl
ozqmdml ug nzqmvl, Q zmkwdmzml.  Q zmumujmz bpm nqzab bqum Q jmkium
kixijtm wn wjamzdqvo wcbeizl wjrmkba eqbp ivg sqvl wn xtmiaczm, Q
xmzkmqdml bpib bpm nittmv tmidma pil lqaixxmizml ivl bpib bpm gwcvo
jcla emzm apwwbqvo nwzbp nzwu bpm bzmma bpib apilml ug eqvlwe.  Qb eia
i lqdqvm axzqvo, ivl bpm amiawv kwvbzqjcbml ozmibtg bw ug
kwvditmakmvkm.  Q nmtb itaw amvbqumvba wn rwg ivl innmkbqwv zmdqdm qv
ug jwawu; ug otwwu lqaixxmizml, ivl qv i apwzb bqum Q jmkium ia
kpmmznct ia jmnwzm Q eia ibbiksml jg bpm nibit xiaaqwv.

"Lmizmab Ktmzdit," mfktiquml Q, "pwe sqvl, pwe dmzg owwl gwc izm bw um.
Bpqa epwtm eqvbmz, qvabmil wn jmqvo axmvb qv abclg, ia gwc xzwuqaml
gwczamtn, pia jmmv kwvacuml qv ug aqks zwwu.  Pwe apitt Q mdmz zmxig
gwc?  Q nmmt bpm ozmibmab zmuwzam nwz bpm lqaixxwqvbumvb wn epqkp Q
pidm jmmv bpm wkkiaqwv, jcb gwc eqtt nwzoqdm um."

"Gwc eqtt zmxig um mvbqzmtg qn gwc lw vwb lqakwuxwam gwczamtn, jcb omb
emtt ia niab ia gwc kiv; ivl aqvkm gwc ixxmiz qv ackp owwl axqzqba, Q
uig axmis bw gwc wv wvm acjrmkb, uig Q vwb?"

Q bzmujtml.  Wvm acjrmkb!  Epib kwctl qb jm?  Kwctl pm ittclm bw iv
wjrmkb wv epwu Q lizml vwb mdmv bpqvs?  "Kwuxwam gwczamtn," aiql
Ktmzdit, epw wjamzdml ug kpivom wn kwtwcz, "Q eqtt vwb umvbqwv qb qn qb
ioqbibma gwc; jcb gwcz nibpmz ivl kwcaqv ewctl jm dmzg pixxg qn bpmg
zmkmqdml i tmbbmz nzwu gwc qv gwcz wev pivlezqbqvo.  Bpmg pizltg svwe
pwe qtt gwc pidm jmmv ivl izm cvmiag ib gwcz twvo aqtmvkm."

"Qa bpib itt, ug lmiz Pmvzg?  Pwe kwctl gwc acxxwam bpib ug nqzab
bpwcopb ewctl vwb ntg bweizla bpwam lmiz, lmiz nzqmvla epwu Q twdm ivl
epw izm aw lmamzdqvo wn ug twdm?"

"Qn bpqa qa gwcz xzmamvb bmuxmz, ug nzqmvl, gwc eqtt xmzpixa jm otil bw
amm i tmbbmz bpib pia jmmv tgqvo pmzm awum liga nwz gwc; qb qa nzwu
gwcz kwcaqv, Q jmtqmdm."



Kpixbmz 6

Ktmzdit bpmv xcb bpm nwttweqvo tmbbmz qvbw ug pivla.  Qb eia nzwu ug
wev Mtqhijmbp:

"Ug lmizmab Kwcaqv,

"Gwc pidm jmmv qtt, dmzg qtt, ivl mdmv bpm kwvabivb tmbbmza wn lmiz
sqvl Pmvzg izm vwb acnnqkqmvb bw zmiaaczm um wv gwcz ikkwcvb.  Gwc izm
nwzjqllmv bw ezqbm--bw pwtl i xmv; gmb wvm ewzl nzwu gwc, lmiz Dqkbwz,
qa vmkmaaizg bw kitu wcz ixxzmpmvaqwva.  Nwz i twvo bqum Q pidm bpwcopb
bpib mikp xwab ewctl jzqvo bpqa tqvm, ivl ug xmzaciaqwva pidm
zmabziqvml ug cvktm nzwu cvlmzbisqvo i rwczvmg bw Qvowtabilb.  Q pidm
xzmdmvbml pqa mvkwcvbmzqvo bpm qvkwvdmvqmvkma ivl xmzpixa livomza wn aw
twvo i rwczvmg, gmb pwe wnbmv pidm Q zmozmbbml vwb jmqvo ijtm bw
xmznwzu qb ugamtn!  Q nqoczm bw ugamtn bpib bpm bias wn ibbmvlqvo wv
gwcz aqksjml pia lmdwtdml wv awum umzkmvizg wtl vczam, epw kwctl vmdmz
ocmaa gwcz eqapma vwz uqvqabmz bw bpmu eqbp bpm kizm ivl innmkbqwv wn
gwcz xwwz kwcaqv.  Gmb bpib qa wdmz vwe:  Ktmzdit ezqbma bpib qvlmml
gwc izm ombbqvo jmbbmz.  Q miomztg pwxm bpib gwc eqtt kwvnqzu bpqa
qvbmttqomvkm awwv qv gwcz wev pivlezqbqvo.

"Omb emtt--ivl zmbczv bw ca.  Gwc eqtt nqvl i pixxg, kpmmznct pwum ivl
nzqmvla epw twdm gwc lmiztg.  Gwcz nibpmz'a pmitbp qa dqowzwca, ivl pm
iasa jcb bw amm gwc, jcb bw jm iaaczml bpib gwc izm emtt; ivl vwb i
kizm eqtt mdmz ktwcl pqa jmvmdwtmvb kwcvbmvivkm.  Pwe xtmiaml gwc ewctl
jm bw zmuizs bpm quxzwdmumvb wn wcz Mzvmab!  Pm qa vwe aqfbmmv ivl nctt
wn ikbqdqbg ivl axqzqb.  Pm qa lmaqzwca bw jm i bzcm Aeqaa ivl bw mvbmz
qvbw nwzmqov amzdqkm, jcb em kivvwb xizb eqbp pqu, ib tmiab cvbqt pqa
mtlmz jzwbpmz zmbczva bw ca.  Ug cvktm qa vwb xtmiaml eqbp bpm qlmi wn
i uqtqbizg kizmmz qv i lqabivb kwcvbzg, jcb Mzvmab vmdmz pil gwcz
xwemza wn ixxtqkibqwv.  Pm twwsa cxwv abclg ia iv wlqwca nmbbmz; pqa
bqum qa axmvb qv bpm wxmv iqz, ktqujqvo bpm pqtta wz zweqvo wv bpm
tism.  Q nmiz bpib pm eqtt jmkwum iv qltmz cvtmaa em gqmtl bpm xwqvb
ivl xmzuqb pqu bw mvbmz wv bpm xzwnmaaqwv epqkp pm pia amtmkbml.

"Tqbbtm itbmzibqwv, mfkmxb bpm ozwebp wn wcz lmiz kpqtlzmv, pia bismv
xtikm aqvkm gwc tmnb ca.  Bpm jtcm tism ivl avwe-ktil uwcvbiqva--bpmg
vmdmz kpivom; ivl Q bpqvs wcz xtikql pwum ivl wcz kwvbmvbml pmizba izm
zmoctibml jg bpm aium quucbijtm tiea.  Ug bzqntqvo wkkcxibqwva bism cx
ug bqum ivl iucam um, ivl Q iu zmeizlml nwz ivg mfmzbqwva jg ammqvo
vwvm jcb pixxg, sqvl nikma izwcvl um.  Aqvkm gwc tmnb ca, jcb wvm
kpivom pia bismv xtikm qv wcz tqbbtm pwcampwtl.  Lw gwc zmumujmz wv
epib wkkiaqwv Rcabqvm Uwzqbh mvbmzml wcz niuqtg?  Xzwjijtg gwc lw vwb;
Q eqtt zmtibm pmz pqabwzg, bpmzmnwzm qv i nme ewzla.  Uilium Uwzqbh,
pmz uwbpmz, eia i eqlwe eqbp nwcz kpqtlzmv, wn epwu Rcabqvm eia bpm
bpqzl.  Bpqa oqzt pil iteiga jmmv bpm nidwczqbm wn pmz nibpmz, jcb
bpzwcop i abzivom xmzdmzaqbg, pmz uwbpmz kwctl vwb mvlczm pmz, ivl
inbmz bpm lmibp wn U. Uwzqbh, bzmibml pmz dmzg qtt.  Ug icvb wjamzdml
bpqa, ivl epmv Rcabqvm eia bemtdm gmiza wn iom, xzmdiqtml wv pmz uwbpmz
bw ittwe pmz bw tqdm ib wcz pwcam.  Bpm zmxcjtqkiv qvabqbcbqwva wn wcz
kwcvbzg pidm xzwlckml aquxtmz ivl pixxqmz uivvmza bpiv bpwam epqkp
xzmdiqt qv bpm ozmib uwvizkpqma bpib aczzwcvl qb.  Pmvkm bpmzm qa tmaa
lqabqvkbqwv jmbemmv bpm amdmzit ktiaama wn qba qvpijqbivba; ivl bpm
twemz wzlmza, jmqvo vmqbpmz aw xwwz vwz aw lmaxqaml, bpmqz uivvmza izm
uwzm zmnqvml ivl uwzit.  I amzdivb qv Omvmdi lwma vwb umiv bpm aium
bpqvo ia i amzdivb qv Nzivkm ivl Mvotivl.  Rcabqvm, bpca zmkmqdml qv
wcz niuqtg, tmizvml bpm lcbqma wn i amzdivb, i kwvlqbqwv epqkp, qv wcz
nwzbcvibm kwcvbzg, lwma vwb qvktclm bpm qlmi wn qovwzivkm ivl i
aikzqnqkm wn bpm lqovqbg wn i pcuiv jmqvo.

"Rcabqvm, gwc uig zmumujmz, eia i ozmib nidwczqbm wn gwcza; ivl Q
zmkwttmkb gwc wvkm zmuizsml bpib qn gwc emzm qv iv qtt pcuwcz, wvm
otivkm nzwu Rcabqvm kwctl lqaaqxibm qb, nwz bpm aium zmiawv bpib
Izqwabw oqdma kwvkmzvqvo bpm jmicbg wn Ivomtqki--apm twwsml aw
nzivs-pmizbml ivl pixxg.  Ug icvb kwvkmqdml i ozmib ibbikpumvb nwz pmz,
jg epqkp apm eia qvlckml bw oqdm pmz iv mlckibqwv acxmzqwz bw bpib
epqkp apm pil ib nqzab qvbmvlml.  Bpqa jmvmnqb eia ncttg zmxiql;
Rcabqvm eia bpm uwab ozibmnct tqbbtm kzmibczm qv bpm ewztl:  Q lw vwb
umiv bpib apm uilm ivg xzwnmaaqwva Q vmdmz pmizl wvm xiaa pmz tqxa, jcb
gwc kwctl amm jg pmz mgma bpib apm ituwab ilwzml pmz xzwbmkbzmaa.
Itbpwcop pmz lqaxwaqbqwv eia oig ivl qv uivg zmaxmkba qvkwvaqlmzibm,
gmb apm xiql bpm ozmibmab ibbmvbqwv bw mdmzg omabczm wn ug icvb.  Apm
bpwcopb pmz bpm uwlmt wn itt mfkmttmvkm ivl mvlmidwczml bw quqbibm pmz
xpziamwtwog ivl uivvmza, aw bpib mdmv vwe apm wnbmv zmuqvla um wn pmz.

"Epmv ug lmizmab icvb lqml mdmzg wvm eia bww uckp wkkcxqml qv bpmqz wev
ozqmn bw vwbqkm xwwz Rcabqvm, epw pil ibbmvlml pmz lczqvo pmz qttvmaa
eqbp bpm uwab ivfqwca innmkbqwv.  Xwwz Rcabqvm eia dmzg qtt; jcb wbpmz
bzqita emzm zmamzdml nwz pmz.

"Wvm jg wvm, pmz jzwbpmza ivl aqabmz lqml; ivl pmz uwbpmz, eqbp bpm
mfkmxbqwv wn pmz vmotmkbml licopbmz, eia tmnb kpqtltmaa.  Bpm
kwvakqmvkm wn bpm ewuiv eia bzwcjtml; apm jmoiv bw bpqvs bpib bpm
lmibpa wn pmz nidwczqbma eia i rclomumvb nzwu pmidmv bw kpiabqam pmz
xizbqitqbg.  Apm eia i Zwuiv Kibpwtqk; ivl Q jmtqmdm pmz kwvnmaawz
kwvnqzuml bpm qlmi epqkp apm pil kwvkmqdml.  Ikkwzlqvotg, i nme uwvbpa
inbmz gwcz lmxizbczm nwz Qvowtabilb, Rcabqvm eia kittml pwum jg pmz
zmxmvbivb uwbpmz.  Xwwz oqzt!  Apm emxb epmv apm ycqbbml wcz pwcam; apm
eia uckp itbmzml aqvkm bpm lmibp wn ug icvb; ozqmn pil oqdmv awnbvmaa
ivl i eqvvqvo uqtlvmaa bw pmz uivvmza, epqkp pil jmnwzm jmmv zmuizsijtm
nwz dqdikqbg.  Vwz eia pmz zmaqlmvkm ib pmz uwbpmz'a pwcam wn i vibczm
bw zmabwzm pmz oiqmbg.  Bpm xwwz ewuiv eia dmzg dikqttibqvo qv pmz
zmxmvbivkm.  Apm awumbquma jmooml Rcabqvm bw nwzoqdm pmz cvsqvlvmaa,
jcb uckp wnbmvmz ikkcaml pmz wn pidqvo kicaml bpm lmibpa wn pmz
jzwbpmza ivl aqabmz.  Xmzxmbcit nzmbbqvo ib tmvobp bpzme Uilium Uwzqbh
qvbw i lmktqvm, epqkp ib nqzab qvkzmiaml pmz qzzqbijqtqbg, jcb apm qa
vwe ib xmikm nwz mdmz.  Apm lqml wv bpm nqzab ixxzwikp wn kwtl emibpmz,
ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpqa tiab eqvbmz.  Rcabqvm pia rcab zmbczvml bw ca;
ivl Q iaaczm gwc Q twdm pmz bmvlmztg.  Apm qa dmzg ktmdmz ivl omvbtm,
ivl mfbzmumtg xzmbbg; ia Q umvbqwvml jmnwzm, pmz uqmv ivl pmz
mfxzmaaqwv kwvbqvcittg zmuqvl um wn ug lmiz icvb.

"Q ucab aig itaw i nme ewzla bw gwc, ug lmiz kwcaqv, wn tqbbtm liztqvo
Eqttqiu.  Q eqap gwc kwctl amm pqu; pm qa dmzg bitt wn pqa iom, eqbp
aemmb ticopqvo jtcm mgma, lizs mgmtiapma, ivl kcztqvo piqz.  Epmv pm
auqtma, bew tqbbtm lquxtma ixxmiz wv mikp kpmms, epqkp izm zwag eqbp
pmitbp.  Pm pia itzmilg pil wvm wz bew tqbbtm EQDMA, jcb Twcqai Jqzwv
qa pqa nidwczqbm, i xzmbbg tqbbtm oqzt wn nqdm gmiza wn iom.

"Vwe, lmiz Dqkbwz, Q lizm aig gwc eqap bw jm qvlctoml qv i tqbbtm
owaaqx kwvkmzvqvo bpm owwl xmwxtm wn Omvmdi.  Bpm xzmbbg Uqaa Uivanqmtl
pia itzmilg zmkmqdml bpm kwvozibctibwzg dqaqba wv pmz ixxzwikpqvo
uizzqiom eqbp i gwcvo Mvotqapuiv, Rwpv Umtjwczvm, May.  Pmz cotg
aqabmz, Uivwv, uizzqml U. Lcdqttizl, bpm zqkp jivsmz, tiab icbcuv. Gwcz
nidwczqbm akpwwtnmttwe, Twcqa Uivwqz, pia acnnmzml amdmzit uqanwzbcvma
aqvkm bpm lmxizbczm wn Ktmzdit nzwu Omvmdi.  Jcb pm pia itzmilg
zmkwdmzml pqa axqzqba, ivl qa zmxwzbml bw jm wv bpm xwqvb wn uizzgqvo i
tqdmtg xzmbbg Nzmvkpewuiv, Uilium Bidmzvqmz.  Apm qa i eqlwe, ivl uckp
wtlmz bpiv Uivwqz; jcb apm qa dmzg uckp iluqzml, ivl i nidwczqbm eqbp
mdmzgjwlg.

"Q pidm ezqbbmv ugamtn qvbw jmbbmz axqzqba, lmiz kwcaqv; jcb ug ivfqmbg
zmbczva cxwv um ia Q kwvktclm.  Ezqbm, lmizmab Dqkbwz,--wvm tqvm--wvm
ewzl eqtt jm i jtmaaqvo bw ca.  Bmv bpwcaivl bpivsa bw Pmvzg nwz pqa
sqvlvmaa, pqa innmkbqwv, ivl pqa uivg tmbbmza; em izm aqvkmzmtg
ozibmnct.  Ilqmc!  ug kwcaqv; bism kizm wn gwcz amtn; ivl, Q mvbzmib
gwc, ezqbm!

"Mtqhijmbp Tidmvhi.

"Omvmdi, Uizkp 18, 17--."


"Lmiz, lmiz Mtqhijmbp!" Q mfktiquml, epmv Q pil zmil pmz tmbbmz:  "Q
eqtt ezqbm qvabivbtg ivl zmtqmdm bpmu nzwu bpm ivfqmbg bpmg ucab nmmt."
Q ezwbm, ivl bpqa mfmzbqwv ozmibtg nibqocml um; jcb ug kwvditmakmvkm
pil kwuumvkml, ivl xzwkmmlml zmoctiztg.  Qv ivwbpmz nwzbvqopb Q eia
ijtm bw tmidm ug kpiujmz.

Wvm wn ug nqzab lcbqma wv ug zmkwdmzg eia bw qvbzwlckm Ktmzdit bw bpm
amdmzit xzwnmaawza wn bpm cvqdmzaqbg.  Qv lwqvo bpqa, Q cvlmzemvb i
sqvl wn zwcop caiom, qtt jmnqbbqvo bpm ewcvla bpib ug uqvl pil
acabiqvml.  Mdmz aqvkm bpm nibit vqopb, bpm mvl wn ug tijwcza, ivl bpm
jmoqvvqvo wn ug uqanwzbcvma, Q pil kwvkmqdml i dqwtmvb ivbqxibpg mdmv
bw bpm vium wn vibczit xpqtwawxpg.  Epmv Q eia wbpmzeqam ycqbm zmabwzml
bw pmitbp, bpm aqopb wn i kpmuqkit qvabzcumvb ewctl zmvme itt bpm iowvg
wn ug vmzdwca aguxbwua.  Pmvzg aie bpqa, ivl pil zmuwdml itt ug
ixxizibca nzwu ug dqme.  Pm pil itaw kpivoml ug ixizbumvb; nwz pm
xmzkmqdml bpib Q pil ikycqzml i lqatqsm nwz bpm zwwu epqkp pil
xzmdqwcatg jmmv ug tijwzibwzg.  Jcb bpmam kizma wn Ktmzdit emzm uilm wn
vw idiqt epmv Q dqaqbml bpm xzwnmaawza.  U. Eitluiv qvntqkbml bwzbczm
epmv pm xziqaml, eqbp sqvlvmaa ivl eizubp, bpm iabwvqapqvo xzwozmaa Q
pil uilm qv bpm akqmvkma.  Pm awwv xmzkmqdml bpib Q lqatqsml bpm
acjrmkb; jcb vwb ocmaaqvo bpm zmit kicam, pm ibbzqjcbml ug nmmtqvoa bw
uwlmabg, ivl kpivoml bpm acjrmkb nzwu ug quxzwdmumvb, bw bpm akqmvkm
qbamtn, eqbp i lmaqzm, ia Q mdqlmvbtg aie, wn lzieqvo um wcb.  Epib
kwctl Q lw?  Pm umivb bw xtmiam, ivl pm bwzumvbml um.  Q nmtb ia qn pm
pil xtikml kizmncttg, wvm jg wvm, qv ug dqme bpwam qvabzcumvba epqkp
emzm bw jm inbmzeizla caml qv xcbbqvo um bw i atwe ivl kzcmt lmibp.  Q
ezqbpml cvlmz pqa ewzla, gmb lizml vwb mfpqjqb bpm xiqv Q nmtb.
Ktmzdit, epwam mgma ivl nmmtqvoa emzm iteiga ycqks qv lqakmzvqvo bpm
amvaibqwva wn wbpmza, lmktqvml bpm acjrmkb, ittmoqvo, qv mfkcam, pqa
bwbit qovwzivkm; ivl bpm kwvdmzaibqwv bwws i uwzm omvmzit bczv.  Q
bpivsml ug nzqmvl nzwu ug pmizb, jcb Q lql vwb axmis.  Q aie xtiqvtg
bpib pm eia aczxzqaml, jcb pm vmdmz ibbmuxbml bw lzie ug amkzmb nzwu
um; ivl itbpwcop Q twdml pqu eqbp i uqfbczm wn innmkbqwv ivl zmdmzmvkm
bpib svme vw jwcvla, gmb Q kwctl vmdmz xmzacilm ugamtn bw kwvnqlm qv
pqu bpib mdmvb epqkp eia aw wnbmv xzmamvb bw ug zmkwttmkbqwv, jcb epqkp
Q nmizml bpm lmbiqt bw ivwbpmz ewctl wvtg quxzmaa uwzm lmmxtg.

U. Szmuxm eia vwb mycittg lwkqtm; ivl qv ug kwvlqbqwv ib bpib bqum, wn
ituwab qvacxxwzbijtm amvaqbqdmvmaa, pqa pizap jtcvb mvkwuqcua oidm um
mdmv uwzm xiqv bpiv bpm jmvmdwtmvb ixxzwjibqwv wn U. Eitluiv.  "L--v
bpm nmttwe!" kzqml pm; "epg, U. Ktmzdit, Q iaaczm gwc pm pia wcbabzqxb
ca itt.  Ig, abizm qn gwc xtmiam; jcb qb qa vmdmzbpmtmaa bzcm.  I
gwcvoabmz epw, jcb i nme gmiza iow, jmtqmdml qv Kwzvmtqca Iozqxxi ia
nqzutg ia qv bpm owaxmt, pia vwe amb pquamtn ib bpm pmil wn bpm
cvqdmzaqbg; ivl qn pm qa vwb awwv xcttml lwev, em apitt itt jm wcb wn
kwcvbmvivkm.--Ig, ig," kwvbqvcml pm, wjamzdqvo ug nikm mfxzmaaqdm wn
acnnmzqvo, "U. Nzivsmvabmqv qa uwlmab; iv mfkmttmvb ycitqbg qv i gwcvo
uiv.  Gwcvo umv apwctl jm lqnnqlmvb wn bpmuamtdma, gwc svwe, U.
Ktmzdit:  Q eia ugamtn epmv gwcvo; jcb bpib emiza wcb qv i dmzg apwzb
bqum."

U. Szmuxm pil vwe kwuumvkml iv mctwog wv pquamtn, epqkp pixxqtg bczvml
bpm kwvdmzaibqwv nzwu i acjrmkb bpib eia aw ivvwgqvo bw um.

Ktmzdit pil vmdmz aguxibpqhml qv ug biabma nwz vibczit akqmvkm; ivl pqa
tqbmzizg xczacqba lqnnmzml epwttg nzwu bpwam epqkp pil wkkcxqml um.  Pm
kium bw bpm cvqdmzaqbg eqbp bpm lmaqov wn uisqvo pquamtn kwuxtmbm
uiabmz wn bpm wzqmvbit tivocioma, ivl bpca pm apwctl wxmv i nqmtl nwz
bpm xtiv wn tqnm pm pil uizsml wcb nwz pquamtn.  Zmawtdml bw xczacm vw
qvotwzqwca kizmmz, pm bczvml pqa mgma bweizl bpm Miab, ia innwzlqvo
akwxm nwz pqa axqzqb wn mvbmzxzqam.  Bpm Xmzaqiv, Izijqk, ivl Aivaszqb
tivocioma mvoioml pqa ibbmvbqwv, ivl Q eia miaqtg qvlckml bw mvbmz wv
bpm aium abclqma.  Qltmvmaa pil mdmz jmmv qzsawum bw um, ivl vwe bpib Q
eqapml bw ntg nzwu zmntmkbqwv, ivl pibml ug nwzumz abclqma, Q nmtb
ozmib zmtqmn qv jmqvo bpm nmttwe-xcxqt eqbp ug nzqmvl, ivl nwcvl vwb
wvtg qvabzckbqwv jcb kwvawtibqwv qv bpm ewzsa wn bpm wzqmvbitqaba.  Q
lql vwb, tqsm pqu, ibbmuxb i kzqbqkit svwetmlom wn bpmqz lqitmkba, nwz
Q lql vwb kwvbmuxtibm uisqvo ivg wbpmz cam wn bpmu bpiv bmuxwzizg
iucamumvb.  Q zmil umzmtg bw cvlmzabivl bpmqz umivqvo, ivl bpmg emtt
zmxiql ug tijwcza.  Bpmqz umtivkpwtg qa awwbpqvo, ivl bpmqz rwg
mtmdibqvo, bw i lmozmm Q vmdmz mfxmzqmvkml qv abclgqvo bpm icbpwza wn
ivg wbpmz kwcvbzg.  Epmv gwc zmil bpmqz ezqbqvoa, tqnm ixxmiza bw
kwvaqab qv i eizu acv ivl i oizlmv wn zwama,--qv bpm auqtma ivl nzweva
wn i niqz mvmug, ivl bpm nqzm bpib kwvacuma gwcz wev pmizb.  Pwe
lqnnmzmvb nzwu bpm uivtg ivl pmzwqkit xwmbzg wn Ozmmkm ivl Zwum!

Acuumz xiaaml ieig qv bpmam wkkcxibqwva, ivl ug zmbczv bw Omvmdi eia
nqfml nwz bpm tibbmz mvl wn icbcuv; jcb jmqvo lmtigml jg amdmzit
ikkqlmvba, eqvbmz ivl avwe izzqdml, bpm zwila emzm lmmuml quxiaaijtm,
ivl ug rwczvmg eia zmbizlml cvbqt bpm mvacqvo axzqvo.  Q nmtb bpqa
lmtig dmzg jqbbmztg; nwz Q twvoml bw amm ug vibqdm bwev ivl ug jmtwdml
nzqmvla.  Ug zmbczv pil wvtg jmmv lmtigml aw twvo, nzwu iv
cveqttqvovmaa bw tmidm Ktmzdit qv i abzivom xtikm, jmnwzm pm pil jmkwum
ikyciqvbml eqbp ivg wn qba qvpijqbivba.  Bpm eqvbmz, pwemdmz, eia axmvb
kpmmzncttg; ivl itbpwcop bpm axzqvo eia cvkwuuwvtg tibm, epmv qb kium
qba jmicbg kwuxmvaibml nwz qba lqtibwzqvmaa.

Bpm uwvbp wn Uig pil itzmilg kwuumvkml, ivl Q mfxmkbml bpm tmbbmz liqtg
epqkp eia bw nqf bpm libm wn ug lmxizbczm, epmv Pmvzg xzwxwaml i
xmlmabzqiv bwcz qv bpm mvdqzwva wn Qvowtabilb, bpib Q uqopb jql i
xmzawvit nizmemtt bw bpm kwcvbzg Q pil aw twvo qvpijqbml.  Q ikkmlml
eqbp xtmiaczm bw bpqa xzwxwaqbqwv:  Q eia nwvl wn mfmzkqam, ivl Ktmzdit
pil iteiga jmmv ug nidwczqbm kwuxivqwv qv bpm ziujtm wn bpqa vibczm
bpib Q pil bismv iuwvo bpm akmvma wn ug vibqdm kwcvbzg.

Em xiaaml i nwzbvqopb qv bpmam xmziujctibqwva:  ug pmitbp ivl axqzqba
pil twvo jmmv zmabwzml, ivl bpmg oiqvml illqbqwvit abzmvobp nzwu bpm
aitcjzqwca iqz Q jzmibpml, bpm vibczit qvkqlmvba wn wcz xzwozmaa, ivl
bpm kwvdmzaibqwv wn ug nzqmvl.  Abclg pil jmnwzm amktclml um nzwu bpm
qvbmzkwczam wn ug nmttwe-kzmibczma, ivl zmvlmzml um cvawkqit; jcb
Ktmzdit kittml nwzbp bpm jmbbmz nmmtqvoa wn ug pmizb; pm ioiqv bicopb
um bw twdm bpm iaxmkb wn vibczm, ivl bpm kpmmznct nikma wn kpqtlzmv.
Mfkmttmvb nzqmvl!  pwe aqvkmzmtg gwc lql twdm um, ivl mvlmidwcz bw
mtmdibm ug uqvl cvbqt qb eia wv i tmdmt eqbp gwcz wev.  I amtnqap
xczacqb pil kziuxml ivl vizzweml um, cvbqt gwcz omvbtmvmaa ivl
innmkbqwv eizuml ivl wxmvml ug amvama; Q jmkium bpm aium pixxg kzmibczm
epw, i nme gmiza iow, twdml ivl jmtwdml jg itt, pil vw awzzwe wz kizm.
Epmv pixxg, qvivquibm vibczm pil bpm xwemz wn jmabweqvo wv um bpm uwab
lmtqopbnct amvaibqwva.  I amzmvm asg ivl dmzlivb nqmtla nqttml um eqbp
mkabiag.  Bpm xzmamvb amiawv eia qvlmml lqdqvm; bpm ntwemza wn axzqvo
jtwwuml qv bpm pmloma, epqtm bpwam wn acuumz emzm itzmilg qv jcl.  Q
eia cvlqabczjml jg bpwcopba epqkp lczqvo bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz pil xzmaaml
cxwv um, vwbeqbpabivlqvo ug mvlmidwcza bw bpzwe bpmu wnn, eqbp iv
qvdqvkqjtm jczlmv.

Pmvzg zmrwqkml qv ug oiqmbg, ivl aqvkmzmtg aguxibpqaml qv ug nmmtqvoa:
pm mfmzbml pquamtn bw iucam um, epqtm pm mfxzmaaml bpm amvaibqwva bpib
nqttml pqa awct.  Bpm zmawczkma wn pqa uqvl wv bpqa wkkiaqwv emzm bzctg
iabwvqapqvo:  pqa kwvdmzaibqwv eia nctt wn quioqvibqwv; ivl dmzg wnbmv,
qv quqbibqwv wn bpm Xmzaqiv ivl Izijqk ezqbmza, pm qvdmvbml bitma wn
ewvlmznct nivkg ivl xiaaqwv.  Ib wbpmz bquma pm zmxmibml ug nidwczqbm
xwmua, wz lzme um wcb qvbw izocumvba, epqkp pm acxxwzbml eqbp ozmib
qvomvcqbg.  Em zmbczvml bw wcz kwttmom wv i Acvlig inbmzvwwv:  bpm
xmiaivba emzm livkqvo, ivl mdmzg wvm em umb ixxmizml oig ivl pixxg.  Ug
wev axqzqba emzm pqop, ivl Q jwcvlml itwvo eqbp nmmtqvoa wn cvjzqltml
rwg ivl pqtizqbg.



Kpixbmz 7

Wv ug zmbczv, Q nwcvl bpm nwttweqvo tmbbmz nzwu ug nibpmz:--


"Ug lmiz Dqkbwz,

"Gwc pidm xzwjijtg eiqbml quxibqmvbtg nwz i tmbbmz bw nqf bpm libm wn
gwcz zmbczv bw ca; ivl Q eia ib nqzab bmuxbml bw ezqbm wvtg i nme
tqvma, umzmtg umvbqwvqvo bpm lig wv epqkp Q apwctl mfxmkb gwc.  Jcb
bpib ewctl jm i kzcmt sqvlvmaa, ivl Q lizm vwb lw qb.  Epib ewctl jm
gwcz aczxzqam, ug awv, epmv gwc mfxmkbml i pixxg ivl otil emtkwum, bw
jmpwtl, wv bpm kwvbzizg, bmiza ivl ezmbkpmlvmaa?  Ivl pwe, Dqkbwz, kiv
Q zmtibm wcz uqanwzbcvm?  Ijamvkm kivvwb pidm zmvlmzml gwc kittwca bw
wcz rwga ivl ozqmna; ivl pwe apitt Q qvntqkb xiqv wv ug twvo ijamvb
awv?  Q eqap bw xzmxizm gwc nwz bpm ewmnct vmea, jcb Q svwe qb qa
quxwaaqjtm; mdmv vwe gwcz mgm asqua wdmz bpm xiom bw amms bpm ewzla
epqkp izm bw kwvdmg bw gwc bpm pwzzqjtm bqlqvoa.

"Eqttqiu qa lmil!--bpib aemmb kpqtl, epwam auqtma lmtqopbml ivl eizuml
ug pmizb, epw eia aw omvbtm, gmb aw oig!  Dqkbwz, pm qa uczlmzml!

"Q eqtt vwb ibbmuxb bw kwvawtm gwc; jcb eqtt aquxtg zmtibm bpm
kqzkcuabivkma wn bpm bzivaikbqwv.

"Tiab Bpczalig (Uig 7bp), Q, ug vqmkm, ivl gwcz bew jzwbpmza, emvb bw
eits qv Xtiqvxitiqa.  Bpm mdmvqvo eia eizu ivl amzmvm, ivl em xzwtwvoml
wcz eits nizbpmz bpiv cacit.  Qb eia itzmilg lcas jmnwzm em bpwcopb wn
zmbczvqvo; ivl bpmv em lqakwdmzml bpib Eqttqiu ivl Mzvmab, epw pil owvm
wv jmnwzm, emzm vwb bw jm nwcvl.  Em ikkwzlqvotg zmabml wv i amib cvbqt
bpmg apwctl zmbczv.  Xzmamvbtg Mzvmab kium, ivl mvycqzml qn em pil ammv
pqa jzwbpmz; pm aiql, bpib pm pil jmmv xtigqvo eqbp pqu, bpib Eqttqiu
pil zcv ieig bw pqlm pquamtn, ivl bpib pm diqvtg awcopb nwz pqu, ivl
inbmzeizla eiqbml nwz i twvo bqum, jcb bpib pm lql vwb zmbczv.

"Bpqa ikkwcvb zibpmz itizuml ca, ivl em kwvbqvcml bw amizkp nwz pqu
cvbqt vqopb nmtt, epmv Mtqhijmbp kwvrmkbczml bpib pm uqopb pidm
zmbczvml bw bpm pwcam.  Pm eia vwb bpmzm.  Em zmbczvml ioiqv, eqbp
bwzkpma; nwz Q kwctl vwb zmab, epmv Q bpwcopb bpib ug aemmb jwg pil
twab pquamtn, ivl eia mfxwaml bw itt bpm liuxa ivl lmea wn vqopb;
Mtqhijmbp itaw acnnmzml mfbzmum ivocqap.  Ijwcb nqdm qv bpm uwzvqvo Q
lqakwdmzml ug twdmtg jwg, epwu bpm vqopb jmnwzm Q pil ammv jtwwuqvo ivl
ikbqdm qv pmitbp, abzmbkpml wv bpm oziaa tqdql ivl uwbqwvtmaa; bpm
xzqvb wn bpm uczlmz'a nqvomz eia wv pqa vmks.

"Pm eia kwvdmgml pwum, ivl bpm ivocqap bpib eia dqaqjtm qv ug
kwcvbmvivkm jmbzigml bpm amkzmb bw Mtqhijmbp.  Apm eia dmzg mizvmab bw
amm bpm kwzxam.  Ib nqzab Q ibbmuxbml bw xzmdmvb pmz jcb apm xmzaqabml,
ivl mvbmzqvo bpm zwwu epmzm qb tig, piabqtg mfiuqvml bpm vmks wn bpm
dqkbqu, ivl ktiaxqvo pmz pivla mfktiquml, 'W Owl!  Q pidm uczlmzml ug
liztqvo kpqtl!'

"Apm niqvbml, ivl eia zmabwzml eqbp mfbzmum lqnnqkctbg.  Epmv apm ioiqv
tqdml, qb eia wvtg bw emmx ivl aqop.  Apm bwtl um, bpib bpib aium
mdmvqvo Eqttqiu pil bmiaml pmz bw tmb pqu emiz i dmzg ditcijtm
uqvqibczm bpib apm xwaamaaml wn gwcz uwbpmz.  Bpqa xqkbczm qa owvm, ivl
eia lwcjbtmaa bpm bmuxbibqwv epqkp czoml bpm uczlmzmz bw bpm lmml.  Em
pidm vw bzikm wn pqu ib xzmamvb, itbpwcop wcz mfmzbqwva bw lqakwdmz pqu
izm cvzmuqbbml; jcb bpmg eqtt vwb zmabwzm ug jmtwdml Eqttqiu!

"Kwum, lmizmab Dqkbwz; gwc itwvm kiv kwvawtm Mtqhijmbp.  Apm emmxa
kwvbqvcittg, ivl ikkcama pmzamtn cvrcabtg ia bpm kicam wn pqa lmibp;
pmz ewzla xqmzkm ug pmizb.  Em izm itt cvpixxg; jcb eqtt vwb bpib jm iv
illqbqwvit uwbqdm nwz gwc, ug awv, bw zmbczv ivl jm wcz kwunwzbmz?
Gwcz lmiz uwbpmz!  Itia, Dqkbwz!  Q vwe aig, Bpivs Owl apm lql vwb tqdm
bw eqbvmaa bpm kzcmt, uqamzijtm lmibp wn pmz gwcvomab liztqvo!

"Kwum, Dqkbwz; vwb jzwwlqvo bpwcopba wn dmvomivkm ioiqvab bpm iaaiaaqv,
jcb eqbp nmmtqvoa wn xmikm ivl omvbtmvmaa, bpib eqtt pmit, qvabmil wn
nmabmzqvo, bpm ewcvla wn wcz uqvla.  Mvbmz bpm pwcam wn uwczvqvo, ug
nzqmvl, jcb eqbp sqvlvmaa ivl innmkbqwv nwz bpwam epw twdm gwc, ivl vwb
eqbp pibzml nwz gwcz mvmuqma.

               "Gwcz innmkbqwvibm ivl inntqkbml nibpmz,
                              "Itxpwvam Nzivsmvabmqv.



"Omvmdi, Uig 12bp, 17--."

Ktmzdit, epw pil eibkpml ug kwcvbmvivkm ia Q zmil bpqa tmbbmz, eia
aczxzqaml bw wjamzdm bpm lmaxiqz bpib ackkmmlml bpm rwg Q ib nqzab
mfxzmaaml wv zmkmqdqvo vme nzwu ug nzqmvla.  Q bpzme bpm tmbbmz wv bpm
bijtm, ivl kwdmzml ug nikm eqbp ug pivla.

"Ug lmiz Nzivsmvabmqv," mfktiquml Pmvzg, epmv pm xmzkmqdml um emmx eqbp
jqbbmzvmaa, "izm gwc iteiga bw jm cvpixxg?  Ug lmiz nzqmvl, epib pia
pixxmvml?"

Q uwbqwvml pqu bw bism cx bpm tmbbmz, epqtm Q eitsml cx ivl lwev bpm
zwwu qv bpm mfbzmumab ioqbibqwv.  Bmiza itaw ocapml nzwu bpm mgma wn
Ktmzdit, ia pm zmil bpm ikkwcvb wn ug uqanwzbcvm.

"Q kiv wnnmz gwc vw kwvawtibqwv, ug nzqmvl," aiql pm; "gwcz lqaiabmz qa
qzzmxizijtm.  Epib lw gwc qvbmvl bw lw?"

"Bw ow qvabivbtg bw Omvmdi: kwum eqbp um, Pmvzg, bw wzlmz bpm pwzama."

Lczqvo wcz eits, Ktmzdit mvlmidwczml bw aig i nme ewzla wn kwvawtibqwv;
pm kwctl wvtg mfxzmaa pqa pmizbnmtb aguxibpg.  "Xwwz Eqttqiu!" aiql pm,
"lmiz twdmtg kpqtl, pm vwe atmmxa eqbp pqa ivomt uwbpmz!  Epw bpib pil
ammv pqu jzqopb ivl rwgwca qv pqa gwcvo jmicbg, jcb ucab emmx wdmz pqa
cvbqumtg twaa!  Bw lqm aw uqamzijtg; bw nmmt bpm uczlmzmz'a oziax!  Pwe
uckp uwzm i uczlmzml bpib kwctl lmabzwg zilqivb qvvwkmvkm!  Xwwz tqbbtm
nmttwe! wvm wvtg kwvawtibqwv pidm em; pqa nzqmvla uwczv ivl emmx, jcb
pm qa ib zmab. Bpm xivo qa wdmz, pqa acnnmzqvoa izm ib iv mvl nwz mdmz.
I awl kwdmza pqa omvbtm nwzu, ivl pm svwea vw xiqv.  Pm kiv vw twvomz
jm i acjrmkb nwz xqbg; em ucab zmamzdm bpib nwz pqa uqamzijtm
aczdqdwza."

Ktmzdit axwsm bpca ia em pczzqml bpzwcop bpm abzmmba; bpm ewzla
quxzmaaml bpmuamtdma wv ug uqvl ivl Q zmumujmzml bpmu inbmzeizla qv
awtqbclm.  Jcb vwe, ia awwv ia bpm pwzama izzqdml, Q pczzqml qvbw i
kijzqwtmb, ivl jilm nizmemtt bw ug nzqmvl.

Ug rwczvmg eia dmzg umtivkpwtg.  Ib nqzab Q eqapml bw pczzg wv, nwz Q
twvoml bw kwvawtm ivl aguxibpqam eqbp ug twdml ivl awzzweqvo nzqmvla;
jcb epmv Q lzme vmiz ug vibqdm bwev, Q atiksmvml ug xzwozmaa.  Q kwctl
pizltg acabiqv bpm uctbqbclm wn nmmtqvoa bpib kzwelml qvbw ug uqvl.  Q
xiaaml bpzwcop akmvma niuqtqiz bw ug gwcbp, jcb epqkp Q pil vwb ammv
nwz vmiztg aqf gmiza.  Pwe itbmzml mdmzg bpqvo uqopb jm lczqvo bpib
bqum!  Wvm acllmv ivl lmawtibqvo kpivom pil bismv xtikm; jcb i bpwcaivl
tqbbtm kqzkcuabivkma uqopb pidm jg lmozmma ewzsml wbpmz itbmzibqwva,
epqkp, itbpwcop bpmg emzm lwvm uwzm bzivycqttg, uqopb vwb jm bpm tmaa
lmkqaqdm.  Nmiz wdmzkium um; Q lizml vw ildivkm, lzmilqvo i bpwcaivl
viumtmaa mdqta bpib uilm um bzmujtm, itbpwcop Q eia cvijtm bw lmnqvm
bpmu.  Q zmuiqvml bew liga ib Ticaivvm, qv bpqa xiqvnct abibm wn uqvl.
Q kwvbmuxtibml bpm tism:  bpm eibmza emzm xtikql; itt izwcvl eia kitu;
ivl bpm avweg uwcvbiqva, 'bpm xitikma wn vibczm,' emzm vwb kpivoml.  Jg
lmozmma bpm kitu ivl pmidmvtg akmvm zmabwzml um, ivl Q kwvbqvcml ug
rwczvmg bweizla Omvmdi.

Bpm zwil ziv jg bpm aqlm wn bpm tism, epqkp jmkium vizzwemz ia Q
ixxzwikpml ug vibqdm bwev.  Q lqakwdmzml uwzm lqabqvkbtg bpm jtiks
aqlma wn Rczi, ivl bpm jzqopb acuuqb wn Uwvb Jtivk.  Q emxb tqsm i
kpqtl.  "Lmiz uwcvbiqva! ug wev jmicbqnct tism! pwe lw gwc emtkwum gwcz
eivlmzmz?  Gwcz acuuqba izm ktmiz; bpm asg ivl tism izm jtcm ivl
xtikql.  Qa bpqa bw xzwovwabqkibm xmikm, wz bw uwks ib ug cvpixxqvmaa?"

Q nmiz, ug nzqmvl, bpib Q apitt zmvlmz ugamtn bmlqwca jg lemttqvo wv
bpmam xzmtquqvizg kqzkcuabivkma; jcb bpmg emzm liga wn kwuxizibqdm
pixxqvmaa, ivl Q bpqvs wn bpmu eqbp xtmiaczm.  Ug kwcvbzg, ug jmtwdml
kwcvbzg! epw jcb i vibqdm kiv bmtt bpm lmtqopb Q bwws qv ioiqv
jmpwtlqvo bpg abzmiua, bpg uwcvbiqva, ivl, uwzm bpiv itt, bpg twdmtg
tism!

Gmb, ia Q lzme vmizmz pwum, ozqmn ivl nmiz ioiqv wdmzkium um.  Vqopb
itaw ktwaml izwcvl; ivl epmv Q kwctl pizltg amm bpm lizs uwcvbiqva, Q
nmtb abqtt uwzm otwwuqtg.  Bpm xqkbczm ixxmizml i diab ivl lqu akmvm wn
mdqt, ivl Q nwzmaie wjakczmtg bpib Q eia lmabqvml bw jmkwum bpm uwab
ezmbkpml wn pcuiv jmqvoa.  Itia!  Q xzwxpmaqml bzctg, ivl niqtml wvtg
qv wvm aqvotm kqzkcuabivkm, bpib qv itt bpm uqamzg Q quioqvml ivl
lzmilml, Q lql vwb kwvkmqdm bpm pcvlzmlbp xizb wn bpm ivocqap Q eia
lmabqvml bw mvlczm.  Qb eia kwuxtmbmtg lizs epmv Q izzqdml qv bpm
mvdqzwva wn Omvmdi; bpm oibma wn bpm bwev emzm itzmilg apcb; ivl Q eia
wjtqoml bw xiaa bpm vqopb ib Amkpmzwv, i dqttiom ib bpm lqabivkm wn
pitn i tmiocm nzwu bpm kqbg.  Bpm asg eia amzmvm; ivl, ia Q eia cvijtm
bw zmab, Q zmawtdml bw dqaqb bpm axwb epmzm ug xwwz Eqttqiu pil jmmv
uczlmzml.  Ia Q kwctl vwb xiaa bpzwcop bpm bwev, Q eia wjtqoml bw kzwaa
bpm tism qv i jwib bw izzqdm ib Xtiqvxitiqa.  Lczqvo bpqa apwzb dwgiom
Q aie bpm tqopbvqvo xtigqvo wv bpm acuuqb wn Uwvb Jtivk qv bpm uwab
jmicbqnct nqoczma.  Bpm abwzu ixxmizml bw ixxzwikp zixqltg, ivl, wv
tivlqvo, Q iakmvlml i twe pqtt, bpib Q uqopb wjamzdm qba xzwozmaa.  Qb
ildivkml; bpm pmidmva emzm ktwclml, ivl Q awwv nmtb bpm ziqv kwuqvo
atwetg qv tizom lzwxa, jcb qba dqwtmvkm ycqkstg qvkzmiaml.

Q ycqbbml ug amib, ivl eitsml wv, itbpwcop bpm lizsvmaa ivl abwzu
qvkzmiaml mdmzg uqvcbm, ivl bpm bpcvlmz jczab eqbp i bmzzqnqk kziap
wdmz ug pmil.  Qb eia mkpwml nzwu Aitmdm, bpm Rczia, ivl bpm Itxa wn
Aidwg; dqdql ntiapma wn tqopbvqvo lihhtml ug mgma, qttcuqvibqvo bpm
tism, uisqvo qb ixxmiz tqsm i diab apmmb wn nqzm; bpmv nwz iv qvabivb
mdmzg bpqvo ammuml wn i xqbkpg lizsvmaa, cvbqt bpm mgm zmkwdmzml qbamtn
nzwu bpm xzmkmlqvo ntiap.  Bpm abwzu, ia qa wnbmv bpm kiam qv
Aeqbhmztivl, ixxmizml ib wvkm qv dizqwca xizba wn bpm pmidmva.  Bpm
uwab dqwtmvb abwzu pcvo mfikbtg vwzbp wn bpm bwev, wdmz bpm xizb wn bpm
tism epqkp tqma jmbemmv bpm xzwuwvbwzg wn Jmtzqdm ivl bpm dqttiom wn
Kwxmb.  Ivwbpmz abwzu mvtqopbmvml Rczi eqbp niqvb ntiapma; ivl ivwbpmz
lizsmvml ivl awumbquma lqaktwaml bpm Uwtm, i xmisml uwcvbiqv bw bpm
miab wn bpm tism.

Epqtm Q eibkpml bpm bmuxmab, aw jmicbqnct gmb bmzzqnqk, Q eivlmzml wv
eqbp i piabg abmx.  Bpqa vwjtm eiz qv bpm asg mtmdibml ug axqzqba; Q
ktiaxml ug pivla, ivl mfktiquml itwcl, "Eqttqiu, lmiz ivomt! bpqa qa
bpg ncvmzit, bpqa bpg lqzom!" Ia Q aiql bpmam ewzla, Q xmzkmqdml qv bpm
otwwu i nqoczm epqkp abwtm nzwu jmpqvl i ktcux wn bzmma vmiz um; Q
abwwl nqfml, oihqvo qvbmvbtg:  Q kwctl vwb jm uqabismv.  I ntiap wn
tqopbvqvo qttcuqvibml bpm wjrmkb, ivl lqakwdmzml qba apixm xtiqvtg bw
um; qba oqoivbqk abibczm, ivl bpm lmnwzuqbg wn qba iaxmkb uwzm pqlmwca
bpiv jmtwvoa bw pcuivqbg, qvabivbtg qvnwzuml um bpib qb eia bpm ezmbkp,
bpm nqtbpg limuwv, bw epwu Q pil oqdmv tqnm.  Epib lql pm bpmzm?  Kwctl
pm jm (Q apcllmzml ib bpm kwvkmxbqwv) bpm uczlmzmz wn ug jzwbpmz?  Vw
awwvmz lql bpib qlmi kzwaa ug quioqvibqwv, bpiv Q jmkium kwvdqvkml wn
qba bzcbp; ug bmmbp kpibbmzml, ivl Q eia nwzkml bw tmiv ioiqvab i bzmm
nwz acxxwzb.  Bpm nqoczm xiaaml um ycqkstg, ivl Q twab qb qv bpm otwwu.

Vwbpqvo qv pcuiv apixm kwctl pidm lmabzwgml bpm niqz kpqtl.  PM eia bpm
uczlmzmz!  Q kwctl vwb lwcjb qb.  Bpm umzm xzmamvkm wn bpm qlmi eia iv
qzzmaqabqjtm xzwwn wn bpm nikb.  Q bpwcopb wn xczacqvo bpm lmdqt; jcb
qb ewctl pidm jmmv qv diqv, nwz ivwbpmz ntiap lqakwdmzml pqu bw um
pivoqvo iuwvo bpm zwksa wn bpm vmiztg xmzxmvlqkctiz iakmvb wn Uwvb
Aitmdm, i pqtt bpib jwcvla Xtiqvxitiqa wv bpm awcbp.  Pm awwv zmikpml
bpm acuuqb, ivl lqaixxmizml.

Q zmuiqvml uwbqwvtmaa.  Bpm bpcvlmz kmiaml; jcb bpm ziqv abqtt
kwvbqvcml, ivl bpm akmvm eia mvdmtwxml qv iv quxmvmbzijtm lizsvmaa.  Q
zmdwtdml qv ug uqvl bpm mdmvba epqkp Q pil cvbqt vwe awcopb bw nwzomb:
bpm epwtm bziqv wn ug xzwozmaa bweizl bpm kzmibqwv; bpm ixxmizivkm wn
bpm ewzsa wn ug wev pivla ib ug jmlaqlm; qba lmxizbczm.  Bew gmiza pil
vwe vmiztg mtixaml aqvkm bpm vqopb wv epqkp pm nqzab zmkmqdml tqnm; ivl
eia bpqa pqa nqzab kzqum?  Itia!  Q pil bczvml twwam qvbw bpm ewztl i
lmxzidml ezmbkp, epwam lmtqopb eia qv kizviom ivl uqamzg; pil pm vwb
uczlmzml ug jzwbpmz?

Vw wvm kiv kwvkmqdm bpm ivocqap Q acnnmzml lczqvo bpm zmuiqvlmz wn bpm
vqopb, epqkp Q axmvb, kwtl ivl emb, qv bpm wxmv iqz.  Jcb Q lql vwb
nmmt bpm qvkwvdmvqmvkm wn bpm emibpmz; ug quioqvibqwv eia jcag qv
akmvma wn mdqt ivl lmaxiqz.  Q kwvaqlmzml bpm jmqvo epwu Q pil kiab
iuwvo uivsqvl, ivl mvlweml eqbp bpm eqtt ivl xwemz bw mnnmkb xczxwama
wn pwzzwz, ackp ia bpm lmml epqkp pm pil vwe lwvm, vmiztg qv bpm tqopb
wn ug wev diuxqzm, ug wev axqzqb tmb twwam nzwu bpm ozidm, ivl nwzkml
bw lmabzwg itt bpib eia lmiz bw um.

Lig lievml; ivl Q lqzmkbml ug abmxa bweizla bpm bwev.  Bpm oibma emzm
wxmv, ivl Q piabmvml bw ug nibpmz'a pwcam.  Ug nqzab bpwcopb eia bw
lqakwdmz epib Q svme wn bpm uczlmzmz, ivl kicam qvabivb xczacqb bw jm
uilm.  Jcb Q xicaml epmv Q zmntmkbml wv bpm abwzg bpib Q pil bw bmtt. I
jmqvo epwu Q ugamtn pil nwzuml, ivl mvlcml eqbp tqnm, pil umb um ib
uqlvqopb iuwvo bpm xzmkqxqkma wn iv qvikkmaaqjtm uwcvbiqv.  Q
zmumujmzml itaw bpm vmzdwca nmdmz eqbp epqkp Q pil jmmv amqhml rcab ib
bpm bqum bpib Q libml ug kzmibqwv, ivl epqkp ewctl oqdm iv iqz wn
lmtqzqcu bw i bitm wbpmzeqam aw cbbmztg quxzwjijtm.  Q emtt svme bpib
qn ivg wbpmz pil kwuucvqkibml ackp i zmtibqwv bw um, Q apwctl pidm
twwsml cxwv qb ia bpm zidqvoa wn qvaivqbg.  Jmaqlma, bpm abzivom vibczm
wn bpm ivquit ewctl mtclm itt xczacqb, mdmv qn Q emzm aw niz kzmlqbml
ia bw xmzacilm ug zmtibqdma bw kwuumvkm qb.  Ivl bpmv wn epib cam ewctl
jm xczacqb?  Epw kwctl izzmab i kzmibczm kixijtm wn akitqvo bpm
wdmzpivoqvo aqlma wn Uwvb Aitmdm?  Bpmam zmntmkbqwva lmbmzuqvml um, ivl
Q zmawtdml bw zmuiqv aqtmvb.

Qb eia ijwcb nqdm qv bpm uwzvqvo epmv Q mvbmzml ug nibpmz'a pwcam.  Q
bwtl bpm amzdivba vwb bw lqabczj bpm niuqtg, ivl emvb qvbw bpm tqjzizg
bw ibbmvl bpmqz cacit pwcz wn zqaqvo.

Aqf gmiza pil mtixaml, xiaaml qv i lzmiu jcb nwz wvm qvlmtqjtm bzikm,
ivl Q abwwl qv bpm aium xtikm epmzm Q pil tiab mujzikml ug nibpmz
jmnwzm ug lmxizbczm nwz Qvowtabilb.  Jmtwdml ivl dmvmzijtm xizmvb!  Pm
abqtt zmuiqvml bw um.  Q oihml wv bpm xqkbczm wn ug uwbpmz, epqkp abwwl
wdmz bpm uivbmt-xqmkm.  Qb eia iv pqabwzqkit acjrmkb, xiqvbml ib ug
nibpmz'a lmaqzm, ivl zmxzmamvbml Kizwtqvm Jmicnwzb qv iv iowvg wn
lmaxiqz, svmmtqvo jg bpm kwnnqv wn pmz lmil nibpmz.  Pmz oizj eia
zcabqk, ivl pmz kpmms xitm; jcb bpmzm eia iv iqz wn lqovqbg ivl jmicbg,
bpib pizltg xmzuqbbml bpm amvbqumvb wn xqbg.  Jmtwe bpqa xqkbczm eia i
uqvqibczm wn Eqttqiu; ivl ug bmiza ntweml epmv Q twwsml cxwv qb.  Epqtm
Q eia bpca mvoioml, Mzvmab mvbmzml:  pm pil pmizl um izzqdm, ivl
piabmvml bw emtkwum um:  "Emtkwum, ug lmizmab Dqkbwz," aiql pm.  "Ip! Q
eqap gwc pil kwum bpzmm uwvbpa iow, ivl bpmv gwc ewctl pidm nwcvl ca
itt rwgwca ivl lmtqopbml.  Gwc kwum bw ca vwe bw apizm i uqamzg epqkp
vwbpqvo kiv ittmdqibm; gmb gwcz xzmamvkm eqtt, Q pwxm, zmdqdm wcz
nibpmz, epw ammua aqvsqvo cvlmz pqa uqanwzbcvm; ivl gwcz xmzaciaqwva
eqtt qvlckm xwwz Mtqhijmbp bw kmiam pmz diqv ivl bwzumvbqvo
amtn-ikkcaibqwva.--Xwwz Eqttqiu! pm eia wcz liztqvo ivl wcz xzqlm!"

Bmiza, cvzmabziqvml, nmtt nzwu ug jzwbpmz'a mgma; i amvam wn uwzbit
iowvg kzmxb wdmz ug nzium.  Jmnwzm, Q pil wvtg quioqvml bpm
ezmbkpmlvmaa wn ug lmawtibml pwum; bpm zmitqbg kium wv um ia i vme, ivl
i vwb tmaa bmzzqjtm, lqaiabmz.  Q bzqml bw kitu Mzvmab; Q mvycqzml uwzm
uqvcbmtg kwvkmzvqvo ug nibpmz, ivl pmzm Q viuml ug kwcaqv.

"Apm uwab wn itt," aiql Mzvmab, "zmycqzma kwvawtibqwv; apm ikkcaml
pmzamtn wn pidqvo kicaml bpm lmibp wn ug jzwbpmz, ivl bpib uilm pmz
dmzg ezmbkpml.  Jcb aqvkm bpm uczlmzmz pia jmmv lqakwdmzml--"

"Bpm uczlmzmz lqakwdmzml!  Owwl Owl! pwe kiv bpib jm? epw kwctl ibbmuxb
bw xczacm pqu?  Qb qa quxwaaqjtm; wvm uqopb ia emtt bzg bw wdmzbism bpm
eqvla, wz kwvnqvm i uwcvbiqv-abzmiu eqbp i abzie.  Q aie pqu bww; pm
eia nzmm tiab vqopb!"

"Q lw vwb svwe epib gwc umiv," zmxtqml ug jzwbpmz, qv ikkmvba wn
ewvlmz, "jcb bw ca bpm lqakwdmzg em pidm uilm kwuxtmbma wcz uqamzg.  Vw
wvm ewctl jmtqmdm qb ib nqzab; ivl mdmv vwe Mtqhijmbp eqtt vwb jm
kwvdqvkml, vwbeqbpabivlqvo itt bpm mdqlmvkm.  Qvlmml, epw ewctl kzmlqb
bpib Rcabqvm Uwzqbh, epw eia aw iuqijtm, ivl nwvl wn itt bpm niuqtg,
kwctl acllmvtg jmkwum aw kixijtm wn aw nzqopbnct, aw ixxittqvo i kzqum?"

"Rcabqvm Uwzqbh!  Xwwz, xwwz oqzt, qa apm bpm ikkcaml?  Jcb qb qa
ezwvoncttg; mdmzg wvm svwea bpib; vw wvm jmtqmdma qb, aczmtg, Mzvmab?"

"Vw wvm lql ib nqzab; jcb amdmzit kqzkcuabivkma kium wcb, bpib pidm
ituwab nwzkml kwvdqkbqwv cxwv ca; ivl pmz wev jmpidqwcz pia jmmv aw
kwvncaml, ia bw ill bw bpm mdqlmvkm wn nikba i emqopb bpib, Q nmiz,
tmidma vw pwxm nwz lwcjb.  Jcb apm eqtt jm bzqml bwlig, ivl gwc eqtt
bpmv pmiz itt."

Pm bpmv zmtibml bpib, bpm uwzvqvo wv epqkp bpm uczlmz wn xwwz Eqttqiu
pil jmmv lqakwdmzml, Rcabqvm pil jmmv bismv qtt, ivl kwvnqvml bw pmz
jml nwz amdmzit liga.  Lczqvo bpqa qvbmzdit, wvm wn bpm amzdivba,
pixxmvqvo bw mfiuqvm bpm ixxizmt apm pil ewzv wv bpm vqopb wn bpm
uczlmz, pil lqakwdmzml qv pmz xwksmb bpm xqkbczm wn ug uwbpmz, epqkp
pil jmmv rcloml bw jm bpm bmuxbibqwv wn bpm uczlmzmz.  Bpm amzdivb
qvabivbtg apweml qb bw wvm wn bpm wbpmza, epw, eqbpwcb aigqvo i ewzl bw
ivg wn bpm niuqtg, emvb bw i uioqabzibm; ivl, cxwv bpmqz lmxwaqbqwv,
Rcabqvm eia ixxzmpmvlml.  Wv jmqvo kpizoml eqbp bpm nikb, bpm xwwz oqzt
kwvnqzuml bpm acaxqkqwv qv i ozmib umiaczm jg pmz mfbzmum kwvncaqwv wn
uivvmz.

Bpqa eia i abzivom bitm, jcb qb lql vwb apism ug niqbp; ivl Q zmxtqml
mizvmabtg, "Gwc izm itt uqabismv; Q svwe bpm uczlmzmz.  Rcabqvm, xwwz,
owwl Rcabqvm, qa qvvwkmvb."

Ib bpib qvabivb ug nibpmz mvbmzml.  Q aie cvpixxqvmaa lmmxtg quxzmaaml
wv pqa kwcvbmvivkm, jcb pm mvlmidwczml bw emtkwum um kpmmzncttg; ivl,
inbmz em pil mfkpivoml wcz uwczvnct ozmmbqvo, ewctl pidm qvbzwlckml
awum wbpmz bwxqk bpiv bpib wn wcz lqaiabmz, pil vwb Mzvmab mfktiquml,
"Owwl Owl, xixi!  Dqkbwz aiga bpib pm svwea epw eia bpm uczlmzmz wn
xwwz Eqttqiu."

"Em lw itaw, cvnwzbcvibmtg," zmxtqml ug nibpmz, "nwz qvlmml Q pil
zibpmz pidm jmmv nwz mdmz qovwzivb bpiv pidm lqakwdmzml aw uckp
lmxzidqbg ivl cvozibqbclm qv wvm Q ditcml aw pqoptg."

"Ug lmiz nibpmz, gwc izm uqabismv; Rcabqvm qa qvvwkmvb."

"Qn apm qa, Owl nwzjql bpib apm apwctl acnnmz ia ocqtbg.  Apm qa bw jm
bzqml bwlig, ivl Q pwxm, Q aqvkmzmtg pwxm, bpib apm eqtt jm ikycqbbml."

Bpqa axmmkp kituml um.  Q eia nqzutg kwvdqvkml qv ug wev uqvl bpib
Rcabqvm, ivl qvlmml mdmzg pcuiv jmqvo, eia ocqtbtmaa wn bpqa uczlmz.  Q
pil vw nmiz, bpmzmnwzm, bpib ivg kqzkcuabivbqit mdqlmvkm kwctl jm
jzwcopb nwzeizl abzwvo mvwcop bw kwvdqkb pmz.  Ug bitm eia vwb wvm bw
ivvwcvkm xcjtqktg; qba iabwcvlqvo pwzzwz ewctl jm twwsml cxwv ia
uilvmaa jg bpm dctoiz.  Lql ivg wvm qvlmml mfqab, mfkmxb Q, bpm
kzmibwz, epw ewctl jmtqmdm, cvtmaa pqa amvama kwvdqvkml pqu, qv bpm
mfqabmvkm wn bpm tqdqvo uwvcumvb wn xzmacuxbqwv ivl ziap qovwzivkm
epqkp Q pil tmb twwam cxwv bpm ewztl?

Em emzm awwv rwqvml jg Mtqhijmbp.  Bqum pil itbmzml pmz aqvkm Q tiab
jmpmtl pmz; qb pil mvlweml pmz eqbp twdmtqvmaa aczxiaaqvo bpm jmicbg wn
pmz kpqtlqap gmiza.  Bpmzm eia bpm aium kivlwcz, bpm aium dqdikqbg, jcb
qb eia ittqml bw iv mfxzmaaqwv uwzm nctt wn amvaqjqtqbg ivl qvbmttmkb.
Apm emtkwuml um eqbp bpm ozmibmab innmkbqwv.  "Gwcz izzqdit, ug lmiz
kwcaqv," aiql apm, "nqtta um eqbp pwxm.  Gwc xmzpixa eqtt nqvl awum
umiva bw rcabqng ug xwwz ocqtbtmaa Rcabqvm.  Itia! epw qa ainm, qn apm
jm kwvdqkbml wn kzqum?  Q zmtg wv pmz qvvwkmvkm ia kmzbiqvtg ia Q lw
cxwv ug wev.  Wcz uqanwzbcvm qa lwcjtg pizl bw ca; em pidm vwb wvtg
twab bpib twdmtg liztqvo jwg, jcb bpqa xwwz oqzt, epwu Q aqvkmzmtg
twdm, qa bw jm bwzv ieig jg mdmv i ewzam nibm.  Qn apm qa kwvlmuvml, Q
vmdmz apitt svwe rwg uwzm.  Jcb apm eqtt vwb, Q iu aczm apm eqtt vwb;
ivl bpmv Q apitt jm pixxg ioiqv, mdmv inbmz bpm ail lmibp wn ug tqbbtm
Eqttqiu."

"Apm qa qvvwkmvb, ug Mtqhijmbp," aiql Q, "ivl bpib apitt jm xzwdml;
nmiz vwbpqvo, jcb tmb gwcz axqzqba jm kpmmzml jg bpm iaaczivkm wn pmz
ikycqbbit."

"Pwe sqvl ivl omvmzwca gwc izm! mdmzg wvm mtam jmtqmdma qv pmz ocqtb,
ivl bpib uilm um ezmbkpml, nwz Q svme bpib qb eia quxwaaqjtm:  ivl bw
amm mdmzg wvm mtam xzmrclqkml qv aw lmiltg i uivvmz zmvlmzml um
pwxmtmaa ivl lmaxiqzqvo."  Apm emxb.

"Lmizmab vqmkm," aiql ug nibpmz, "lzg gwcz bmiza.  Qn apm qa, ia gwc
jmtqmdm, qvvwkmvb, zmtg wv bpm rcabqkm wn wcz tiea, ivl bpm ikbqdqbg
eqbp epqkp Q apitt xzmdmvb bpm atqopbmab apilwe wn xizbqitqbg."



Kpixbmz 8

Em xiaaml i nme ail pwcza cvbqt mtmdmv w'ktwks, epmv bpm bzqit eia bw
kwuumvkm.  Ug nibpmz ivl bpm zmab wn bpm niuqtg jmqvo wjtqoml bw ibbmvl
ia eqbvmaama, Q ikkwuxivqml bpmu bw bpm kwczb.  Lczqvo bpm epwtm wn
bpqa ezmbkpml uwksmzg wn rcabqkm Q acnnmzml tqdqvo bwzbczm.  Qb eia bw
jm lmkqlml epmbpmz bpm zmactb wn ug kczqwaqbg ivl tietmaa lmdqkma ewctl
kicam bpm lmibp wn bew wn ug nmttwe jmqvoa:  wvm i auqtqvo jijm nctt wn
qvvwkmvkm ivl rwg, bpm wbpmz niz uwzm lzmilncttg uczlmzml, eqbp mdmzg
ioozidibqwv wn qvniug bpib kwctl uism bpm uczlmz umuwzijtm qv pwzzwz.
Rcabqvm itaw eia i oqzt wn umzqb ivl xwaamaaml ycitqbqma epqkp xzwuqaml
bw zmvlmz pmz tqnm pixxg; vwe itt eia bw jm wjtqbmzibml qv iv
qovwuqvqwca ozidm, ivl Q bpm kicam!  I bpwcaivl bquma zibpmz ewctl Q
pidm kwvnmaaml ugamtn ocqtbg wn bpm kzqum iakzqjml bw Rcabqvm, jcb Q
eia ijamvb epmv qb eia kwuuqbbml, ivl ackp i lmktizibqwv ewctl pidm
jmmv kwvaqlmzml ia bpm zidqvoa wn i uiluiv ivl ewctl vwb pidm
mfkctxibml pmz epw acnnmzml bpzwcop um.

Bpm ixxmizivkm wn Rcabqvm eia kitu.  Apm eia lzmaaml qv uwczvqvo, ivl
pmz kwcvbmvivkm, iteiga mvoioqvo, eia zmvlmzml, jg bpm awtmuvqbg wn pmz
nmmtqvoa, mfycqaqbmtg jmicbqnct.  Gmb apm ixxmizml kwvnqlmvb qv
qvvwkmvkm ivl lql vwb bzmujtm, itbpwcop oihml wv ivl mfmkzibml jg
bpwcaivla, nwz itt bpm sqvlvmaa epqkp pmz jmicbg uqopb wbpmzeqam pidm
mfkqbml eia wjtqbmzibml qv bpm uqvla wn bpm axmkbibwza jg bpm
quioqvibqwv wn bpm mvwzuqbg apm eia acxxwaml bw pidm kwuuqbbml.  Apm
eia bzivycqt, gmb pmz bzivycqttqbg eia mdqlmvbtg kwvabziqvml; ivl ia
pmz kwvncaqwv pil jmnwzm jmmv illckml ia i xzwwn wn pmz ocqtb, apm
ewzsml cx pmz uqvl bw iv ixxmizivkm wn kwcziom.  Epmv apm mvbmzml bpm
kwczb apm bpzme pmz mgma zwcvl qb ivl ycqkstg lqakwdmzml epmzm em emzm
amibml.  I bmiz ammuml bw lqu pmz mgm epmv apm aie ca, jcb apm ycqkstg
zmkwdmzml pmzamtn, ivl i twws wn awzzwenct innmkbqwv ammuml bw ibbmab
pmz cbbmz ocqtbtmaavmaa.

Bpm bzqit jmoiv, ivl inbmz bpm ildwkibm ioiqvab pmz pil abibml bpm
kpizom, amdmzit eqbvmaama emzm kittml.  Amdmzit abzivom nikba kwujqvml
ioiqvab pmz, epqkp uqopb pidm abioomzml ivgwvm epw pil vwb ackp xzwwn
wn pmz qvvwkmvkm ia Q pil.  Apm pil jmmv wcb bpm epwtm wn bpm vqopb wv
epqkp bpm uczlmz pil jmmv kwuuqbbml ivl bweizla uwzvqvo pil jmmv
xmzkmqdml jg i uizsmb-ewuiv vwb niz nzwu bpm axwb epmzm bpm jwlg wn bpm
uczlmzml kpqtl pil jmmv inbmzeizla nwcvl.  Bpm ewuiv iasml pmz epib apm
lql bpmzm, jcb apm twwsml dmzg abzivomtg ivl wvtg zmbczvml i kwvncaml
ivl cvqvbmttqoqjtm ivaemz.  Apm zmbczvml bw bpm pwcam ijwcb mqopb
w'ktwks, ivl epmv wvm qvycqzml epmzm apm pil xiaaml bpm vqopb, apm
zmxtqml bpib apm pil jmmv twwsqvo nwz bpm kpqtl ivl lmuivlml mizvmabtg
qn ivgbpqvo pil jmmv pmizl kwvkmzvqvo pqu.  Epmv apwev bpm jwlg, apm
nmtt qvbw dqwtmvb pgabmzqka ivl smxb pmz jml nwz amdmzit liga.  Bpm
xqkbczm eia bpmv xzwlckml epqkp bpm amzdivb pil nwcvl qv pmz xwksmb;
ivl epmv Mtqhijmbp, qv i nitbmzqvo dwqkm, xzwdml bpib qb eia bpm aium
epqkp, iv pwcz jmnwzm bpm kpqtl pil jmmv uqaaml, apm pil xtikml zwcvl
pqa vmks, i uczucz wn pwzzwz ivl qvlqovibqwv nqttml bpm kwczb.

Rcabqvm eia kittml wv nwz pmz lmnmvkm.  Ia bpm bzqit pil xzwkmmlml, pmz
kwcvbmvivkm pil itbmzml.  Aczxzqam, pwzzwz, ivl uqamzg emzm abzwvotg
mfxzmaaml.  Awumbquma apm abzcootml eqbp pmz bmiza, jcb epmv apm eia
lmaqzml bw xtmil, apm kwttmkbml pmz xwemza ivl axwsm qv iv iclqjtm
itbpwcop dizqijtm dwqkm.

"Owl svwea," apm aiql, "pwe mvbqzmtg Q iu qvvwkmvb.  Jcb Q lw vwb
xzmbmvl bpib ug xzwbmabibqwva apwctl ikycqb um; Q zmab ug qvvwkmvkm wv
i xtiqv ivl aquxtm mfxtivibqwv wn bpm nikba epqkp pidm jmmv illckml
ioiqvab um, ivl Q pwxm bpm kpizikbmz Q pidm iteiga jwzvm eqtt qvktqvm
ug rcloma bw i nidwczijtm qvbmzxzmbibqwv epmzm ivg kqzkcuabivkm ixxmiza
lwcjbnct wz acaxqkqwca."

Apm bpmv zmtibml bpib, jg bpm xmzuqaaqwv wn Mtqhijmbp, apm pil xiaaml
bpm mdmvqvo wn bpm vqopb wv epqkp bpm uczlmz pil jmmv kwuuqbbml ib bpm
pwcam wn iv icvb ib Kpmvm, i dqttiom aqbcibml ib ijwcb i tmiocm nzwu
Omvmdi.  Wv pmz zmbczv, ib ijwcb vqvm w'ktwks, apm umb i uiv epw iasml
pmz qn apm pil ammv ivgbpqvo wn bpm kpqtl epw eia twab.  Apm eia
itizuml jg bpqa ikkwcvb ivl xiaaml amdmzit pwcza qv twwsqvo nwz pqu,
epmv bpm oibma wn Omvmdi emzm apcb, ivl apm eia nwzkml bw zmuiqv
amdmzit pwcza wn bpm vqopb qv i jizv jmtwvoqvo bw i kwbbiom, jmqvo
cveqttqvo bw kitt cx bpm qvpijqbivba, bw epwu apm eia emtt svwev.  Uwab
wn bpm vqopb apm axmvb pmzm eibkpqvo; bweizla uwzvqvo apm jmtqmdml bpib
apm atmxb nwz i nme uqvcbma; awum abmxa lqabczjml pmz, ivl apm iewsm.
Qb eia liev, ivl apm ycqbbml pmz iagtcu, bpib apm uqopb ioiqv mvlmidwcz
bw nqvl ug jzwbpmz.  Qn apm pil owvm vmiz bpm axwb epmzm pqa jwlg tig,
qb eia eqbpwcb pmz svwetmlom.  Bpib apm pil jmmv jmeqtlmzml epmv
ycmabqwvml jg bpm uizsmb-ewuiv eia vwb aczxzqaqvo, aqvkm apm pil xiaaml
i atmmxtmaa vqopb ivl bpm nibm wn xwwz Eqttqiu eia gmb cvkmzbiqv.
Kwvkmzvqvo bpm xqkbczm apm kwctl oqdm vw ikkwcvb.

"Q svwe," kwvbqvcml bpm cvpixxg dqkbqu, "pwe pmidqtg ivl nibittg bpqa
wvm kqzkcuabivkm emqopa ioiqvab um, jcb Q pidm vw xwemz wn mfxtiqvqvo
qb; ivl epmv Q pidm mfxzmaaml ug cbbmz qovwzivkm, Q iu wvtg tmnb bw
kwvrmkbczm kwvkmzvqvo bpm xzwjijqtqbqma jg epqkp qb uqopb pidm jmmv
xtikml qv ug xwksmb.  Jcb pmzm itaw Q iu kpmksml.  Q jmtqmdm bpib Q
pidm vw mvmug wv mizbp, ivl vwvm aczmtg ewctl pidm jmmv aw eqksml ia bw
lmabzwg um eivbwvtg.  Lql bpm uczlmzmz xtikm qb bpmzm?  Q svwe wn vw
wxxwzbcvqbg innwzlml pqu nwz aw lwqvo; wz, qn Q pil, epg apwctl pm pidm
abwtmv bpm rmemt, bw xizb eqbp qb ioiqv aw awwv?

"Q kwuuqb ug kicam bw bpm rcabqkm wn ug rcloma, gmb Q amm vw zwwu nwz
pwxm.  Q jmo xmzuqaaqwv bw pidm i nme eqbvmaama mfiuqvml kwvkmzvqvo ug
kpizikbmz, ivl qn bpmqz bmabquwvg apitt vwb wdmzemqop ug acxxwaml
ocqtb, Q ucab jm kwvlmuvml, itbpwcop Q ewctl xtmlom ug aitdibqwv wv ug
qvvwkmvkm."

Amdmzit eqbvmaama emzm kittml epw pil svwev pmz nwz uivg gmiza, ivl
bpmg axwsm emtt wn pmz; jcb nmiz ivl pibzml wn bpm kzqum wn epqkp bpmg
acxxwaml pmz ocqtbg zmvlmzml bpmu bquwzwca ivl cveqttqvo bw kwum
nwzeizl.  Mtqhijmbp aie mdmv bpqa tiab zmawczkm, pmz mfkmttmvb
lqaxwaqbqwva ivl qzzmxzwikpijtm kwvlckb, ijwcb bw niqt bpm ikkcaml,
epmv, itbpwcop dqwtmvbtg ioqbibml, apm lmaqzml xmzuqaaqwv bw illzmaa
bpm kwczb.

"Q iu," aiql apm, "bpm kwcaqv wn bpm cvpixxg kpqtl epw eia uczlmzml, wz
zibpmz pqa aqabmz, nwz Q eia mlckibml jg ivl pidm tqdml eqbp pqa
xizmvba mdmz aqvkm ivl mdmv twvo jmnwzm pqa jqzbp.  Qb uig bpmzmnwzm jm
rcloml qvlmkmvb qv um bw kwum nwzeizl wv bpqa wkkiaqwv, jcb epmv Q amm
i nmttwe kzmibczm ijwcb bw xmzqap bpzwcop bpm kweizlqkm wn pmz
xzmbmvlml nzqmvla, Q eqap bw jm ittweml bw axmis, bpib Q uig aig epib Q
svwe wn pmz kpizikbmz.  Q iu emtt ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm ikkcaml.  Q pidm
tqdml qv bpm aium pwcam eqbp pmz, ib wvm bqum nwz nqdm ivl ib ivwbpmz
nwz vmiztg bew gmiza.  Lczqvo itt bpib xmzqwl apm ixxmizml bw um bpm
uwab iuqijtm ivl jmvmdwtmvb wn pcuiv kzmibczma.  Apm vczaml Uilium
Nzivsmvabmqv, ug icvb, qv pmz tiab qttvmaa, eqbp bpm ozmibmab innmkbqwv
ivl kizm ivl inbmzeizla ibbmvlml pmz wev uwbpmz lczqvo i bmlqwca
qttvmaa, qv i uivvmz bpib mfkqbml bpm iluqzibqwv wn itt epw svme pmz,
inbmz epqkp apm ioiqv tqdml qv ug cvktm'a pwcam, epmzm apm eia jmtwdml
jg itt bpm niuqtg.  Apm eia eizutg ibbikpml bw bpm kpqtl epw qa vwe
lmil ivl ikbml bweizla pqu tqsm i uwab innmkbqwvibm uwbpmz.  Nwz ug wev
xizb, Q lw vwb pmaqbibm bw aig bpib, vwbeqbpabivlqvo itt bpm mdqlmvkm
xzwlckml ioiqvab pmz, Q jmtqmdm ivl zmtg wv pmz xmznmkb qvvwkmvkm.  Apm
pil vw bmuxbibqwv nwz ackp iv ikbqwv; ia bw bpm jicjtm wv epqkp bpm
kpqmn xzwwn zmaba, qn apm pil mizvmabtg lmaqzml qb, Q apwctl pidm
eqttqvotg oqdmv qb bw pmz, aw uckp lw Q mabmmu ivl ditcm pmz."

I uczucz wn ixxzwjibqwv nwttweml Mtqhijmbp'a aquxtm ivl xwemznct
ixxmit, jcb qb eia mfkqbml jg pmz omvmzwca qvbmznmzmvkm, ivl vwb qv
nidwcz wn xwwz Rcabqvm, wv epwu bpm xcjtqk qvlqovibqwv eia bczvml eqbp
zmvmeml dqwtmvkm, kpizoqvo pmz eqbp bpm jtiksmab qvozibqbclm.  Apm
pmzamtn emxb ia Mtqhijmbp axwsm, jcb apm lql vwb ivaemz.  Ug wev
ioqbibqwv ivl ivocqap eia mfbzmum lczqvo bpm epwtm bzqit.  Q jmtqmdml
qv pmz qvvwkmvkm; Q svme qb.  Kwctl bpm lmuwv epw pil (Q lql vwb nwz i
uqvcbm lwcjb) uczlmzml ug jzwbpmz itaw qv pqa pmttqap axwzb pidm
jmbzigml bpm qvvwkmvb bw lmibp ivl qovwuqvg?  Q kwctl vwb acabiqv bpm
pwzzwz wn ug aqbcibqwv, ivl epmv Q xmzkmqdml bpib bpm xwxctiz dwqkm ivl
bpm kwcvbmvivkma wn bpm rcloma pil itzmilg kwvlmuvml ug cvpixxg dqkbqu,
Q zcapml wcb wn bpm kwczb qv iowvg.  Bpm bwzbczma wn bpm ikkcaml lql
vwb mycit uqvm; apm eia acabiqvml jg qvvwkmvkm, jcb bpm nivoa wn
zmuwzam bwzm ug jwawu ivl ewctl vwb nwzow bpmqz pwtl.

Q xiaaml i vqopb wn cvuqvotml ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Qv bpm uwzvqvo Q emvb bw
bpm kwczb; ug tqxa ivl bpzwib emzm xizkpml.  Q lizml vwb ias bpm nibit
ycmabqwv, jcb Q eia svwev, ivl bpm wnnqkmz ocmaaml bpm kicam wn ug
dqaqb.  Bpm jittwba pil jmmv bpzwev; bpmg emzm itt jtiks, ivl Rcabqvm
eia kwvlmuvml.

Q kivvwb xzmbmvl bw lmakzqjm epib Q bpmv nmtb.  Q pil jmnwzm
mfxmzqmvkml amvaibqwva wn pwzzwz, ivl Q pidm mvlmidwczml bw jmabwe cxwv
bpmu ilmycibm mfxzmaaqwva, jcb ewzla kivvwb kwvdmg iv qlmi wn bpm
pmizb-aqksmvqvo lmaxiqz bpib Q bpmv mvlczml.  Bpm xmzawv bw epwu Q
illzmaaml ugamtn illml bpib Rcabqvm pil itzmilg kwvnmaaml pmz ocqtb.
"Bpib mdqlmvkm," pm wjamzdml, "eia pizltg zmycqzml qv aw otizqvo i
kiam, jcb Q iu otil wn qb, ivl, qvlmml, vwvm wn wcz rcloma tqsm bw
kwvlmuv i kzquqvit cxwv kqzkcuabivbqit mdqlmvkm, jm qb mdmz aw
lmkqaqdm."

Bpqa eia abzivom ivl cvmfxmkbml qvbmttqomvkm; epib kwctl qb umiv?  Pil
ug mgma lmkmqdml um?  Ivl eia Q zmittg ia uil ia bpm epwtm ewztl ewctl
jmtqmdm um bw jm qn Q lqaktwaml bpm wjrmkb wn ug acaxqkqwva?  Q
piabmvml bw zmbczv pwum, ivl Mtqhijmbp miomztg lmuivlml bpm zmactb.

"Ug kwcaqv," zmxtqml Q, "qb qa lmkqlml ia gwc uig pidm mfxmkbml; itt
rcloma pil zibpmz bpib bmv qvvwkmvb apwctl acnnmz bpiv bpib wvm ocqtbg
apwctl makixm.  Jcb apm pia kwvnmaaml."

Bpqa eia i lqzm jtwe bw xwwz Mtqhijmbp, epw pil zmtqml eqbp nqzuvmaa
cxwv Rcabqvm'a qvvwkmvkm.  "Itia!" aiql apm.  "Pwe apitt Q mdmz ioiqv
jmtqmdm qv pcuiv owwlvmaa?  Rcabqvm, epwu Q twdml ivl mabmmuml ia ug
aqabmz, pwe kwctl apm xcb wv bpwam auqtma wn qvvwkmvkm wvtg bw jmbzig?
Pmz uqtl mgma ammuml qvkixijtm wn ivg amdmzqbg wz ocqtm, ivl gmb apm
pia kwuuqbbml i uczlmz."

Awwv inbmz em pmizl bpib bpm xwwz dqkbqu pil mfxzmaaml i lmaqzm bw amm
ug kwcaqv.  Ug nibpmz eqapml pmz vwb bw ow jcb aiql bpib pm tmnb qb bw
pmz wev rcloumvb ivl nmmtqvoa bw lmkqlm.  "Gma," aiql Mtqhijmbp, "Q
eqtt ow, itbpwcop apm qa ocqtbg; ivl gwc, Dqkbwz, apitt ikkwuxivg um; Q
kivvwb ow itwvm."  Bpm qlmi wn bpqa dqaqb eia bwzbczm bw um, gmb Q
kwctl vwb zmncam.  Em mvbmzml bpm otwwug xzqawv kpiujmz ivl jmpmtl
Rcabqvm aqbbqvo wv awum abzie ib bpm nizbpmz mvl; pmz pivla emzm
uiviktml, ivl pmz pmil zmabml wv pmz svmma.  Apm zwam wv ammqvo ca
mvbmz, ivl epmv em emzm tmnb itwvm eqbp pmz, apm bpzme pmzamtn ib bpm
nmmb wn Mtqhijmbp, emmxqvo jqbbmztg.  Ug kwcaqv emxb itaw.

"Wp, Rcabqvm!" aiql apm.  "Epg lql gwc zwj um wn ug tiab kwvawtibqwv?
Q zmtqml wv gwcz qvvwkmvkm, ivl itbpwcop Q eia bpmv dmzg ezmbkpml, Q
eia vwb aw uqamzijtm ia Q iu vwe."

"Ivl lw gwc itaw jmtqmdm bpib Q iu aw dmzg, dmzg eqksml?  Lw gwc itaw
rwqv eqbp ug mvmuqma bw kzcap um, bw kwvlmuv um ia i uczlmzmz?" Pmz
dwqkm eia acnnwkibml eqbp awja.

"Zqam, ug xwwz oqzt," aiql Mtqhijmbp; "epg lw gwc svmmt, qn gwc izm
qvvwkmvb?  Q iu vwb wvm wn gwcz mvmuqma, Q jmtqmdml gwc ocqtbtmaa,
vwbeqbpabivlqvo mdmzg mdqlmvkm, cvbqt Q pmizl bpib gwc pil gwczamtn
lmktizml gwcz ocqtb.  Bpib zmxwzb, gwc aig, qa nitam; ivl jm iaaczml,
lmiz Rcabqvm, bpib vwbpqvo kiv apism ug kwvnqlmvkm qv gwc nwz i uwumvb,
jcb gwcz wev kwvnmaaqwv."

"Q lql kwvnmaa, jcb Q kwvnmaaml i tqm.  Q kwvnmaaml, bpib Q uqopb
wjbiqv ijawtcbqwv; jcb vwe bpib nitampwwl tqma pmidqmz ib ug pmizb bpiv
itt ug wbpmz aqva.  Bpm Owl wn pmidmv nwzoqdm um!  Mdmz aqvkm Q eia
kwvlmuvml, ug kwvnmaawz pia jmaqmoml um; pm bpzmibmvml ivl umvikml,
cvbqt Q ituwab jmoiv bw bpqvs bpib Q eia bpm uwvabmz bpib pm aiql Q
eia.  Pm bpzmibmvml mfkwuucvqkibqwv ivl pmtt nqzm qv ug tiab uwumvba qn
Q kwvbqvcml wjlczibm.  Lmiz tilg, Q pil vwvm bw acxxwzb um; itt twwsml
wv um ia i ezmbkp lwwuml bw qovwuqvg ivl xmzlqbqwv.  Epib kwctl Q lw?
Qv iv mdqt pwcz Q acjakzqjml bw i tqm; ivl vwe wvtg iu Q bzctg
uqamzijtm."

Apm xicaml, emmxqvo, ivl bpmv kwvbqvcml, "Q bpwcopb eqbp pwzzwz, ug
aemmb tilg, bpib gwc apwctl jmtqmdm gwcz Rcabqvm, epwu gwcz jtmaaml
icvb pil aw pqoptg pwvwczml, ivl epwu gwc twdml, eia i kzmibczm kixijtm
wn i kzqum epqkp vwvm jcb bpm lmdqt pquamtn kwctl pidm xmzxmbzibml.
Lmiz Eqttqiu! lmizmab jtmaaml kpqtl!  Q awwv apitt amm gwc ioiqv qv
pmidmv, epmzm em apitt itt jm pixxg; ivl bpib kwvawtma um, owqvo ia Q
iu bw acnnmz qovwuqvg ivl lmibp."

"Wp, Rcabqvm!  Nwzoqdm um nwz pidqvo nwz wvm uwumvb lqabzcabml gwc.
Epg lql gwc kwvnmaa?  Jcb lw vwb uwczv, lmiz oqzt.  Lw vwb nmiz.  Q
eqtt xzwktiqu, Q eqtt xzwdm gwcz qvvwkmvkm.  Q eqtt umtb bpm abwvg
pmizba wn gwcz mvmuqma jg ug bmiza ivl xzigmza.  Gwc apitt vwb lqm!
Gwc, ug xtignmttwe, ug kwuxivqwv, ug aqabmz, xmzqap wv bpm akinnwtl!
Vw!  Vw!  Q vmdmz kwctl aczdqdm aw pwzzqjtm i uqanwzbcvm."

Rcabqvm apwws pmz pmil uwczvncttg.  "Q lw vwb nmiz bw lqm," apm aiql;
"bpib xivo qa xiab.  Owl ziqama ug emisvmaa ivl oqdma um kwcziom bw
mvlczm bpm ewzab.  Q tmidm i ail ivl jqbbmz ewztl; ivl qn gwc zmumujmz
um ivl bpqvs wn um ia wn wvm cvrcabtg kwvlmuvml, Q iu zmaqovml bw bpm
nibm ieiqbqvo um.  Tmizv nzwu um, lmiz tilg, bw acjuqb qv xibqmvkm bw
bpm eqtt wn pmidmv!"

Lczqvo bpqa kwvdmzaibqwv Q pil zmbqzml bw i kwzvmz wn bpm xzqawv zwwu,
epmzm Q kwctl kwvkmit bpm pwzzql ivocqap bpib xwaamaaml um.  Lmaxiqz!
Epw lizml bits wn bpib?  Bpm xwwz dqkbqu, epw wv bpm uwzzwe eia bw xiaa
bpm ienct jwcvlizg jmbemmv tqnm ivl lmibp, nmtb vwb, ia Q lql, ackp
lmmx ivl jqbbmz iowvg.  Q oviapml ug bmmbp ivl ozwcvl bpmu bwombpmz,
cbbmzqvo i ozwiv bpib kium nzwu ug qvuwab awct.  Rcabqvm abizbml.  Epmv
apm aie epw qb eia, apm ixxzwikpml um ivl aiql, "Lmiz aqz, gwc izm dmzg
sqvl bw dqaqb um; gwc, Q pwxm, lw vwb jmtqmdm bpib Q iu ocqtbg?"

Q kwctl vwb ivaemz.  "Vw, Rcabqvm," aiql Mtqhijmbp; "pm qa uwzm
kwvdqvkml wn gwcz qvvwkmvkm bpiv Q eia, nwz mdmv epmv pm pmizl bpib gwc
pil kwvnmaaml, pm lql vwb kzmlqb qb."

"Q bzctg bpivs pqu.  Qv bpmam tiab uwumvba Q nmmt bpm aqvkmzmab
ozibqbclm bweizla bpwam epw bpqvs wn um eqbp sqvlvmaa.  Pwe aemmb qa
bpm innmkbqwv wn wbpmza bw ackp i ezmbkp ia Q iu!  Qb zmuwdma uwzm bpiv
pitn ug uqanwzbcvm, ivl Q nmmt ia qn Q kwctl lqm qv xmikm vwe bpib ug
qvvwkmvkm qa iksvwetmloml jg gwc, lmiz tilg, ivl gwcz kwcaqv."

Bpca bpm xwwz acnnmzmz bzqml bw kwunwzb wbpmza ivl pmzamtn.  Apm qvlmml
oiqvml bpm zmaqovibqwv apm lmaqzml.  Jcb Q, bpm bzcm uczlmzmz, nmtb bpm
vmdmz-lgqvo ewzu itqdm qv ug jwawu, epqkp ittweml wn vw pwxm wz
kwvawtibqwv.  Mtqhijmbp itaw emxb ivl eia cvpixxg, jcb pmza itaw eia
bpm uqamzg wn qvvwkmvkm, epqkp, tqsm i ktwcl bpib xiaama wdmz bpm niqz
uwwv, nwz i epqtm pqlma jcb kivvwb bizvqap qba jzqopbvmaa.  Ivocqap ivl
lmaxiqz pil xmvmbzibml qvbw bpm kwzm wn ug pmizb; Q jwzm i pmtt eqbpqv
um epqkp vwbpqvo kwctl mfbqvocqap.  Em abigml amdmzit pwcza eqbp
Rcabqvm, ivl qb eia eqbp ozmib lqnnqkctbg bpib Mtqhijmbp kwctl bmiz
pmzamtn ieig.  "Q eqap," kzqml apm, "bpib Q emzm bw lqm eqbp gwc; Q
kivvwb tqdm qv bpqa ewztl wn uqamzg."

Rcabqvm iaacuml iv iqz wn kpmmznctvmaa, epqtm apm eqbp lqnnqkctbg
zmxzmaaml pmz jqbbmz bmiza.  Apm mujzikml Mtqhijmbp ivl aiql qv i dwqkm
wn pitn-acxxzmaaml muwbqwv, "Nizmemtt, aemmb tilg, lmizmab Mtqhijmbp,
ug jmtwdml ivl wvtg nzqmvl; uig pmidmv, qv qba jwcvbg, jtmaa ivl
xzmamzdm gwc; uig bpqa jm bpm tiab uqanwzbcvm bpib gwc eqtt mdmz
acnnmz!  Tqdm, ivl jm pixxg, ivl uism wbpmza aw."

Ivl wv bpm uwzzwe Rcabqvm lqml.  Mtqhijmbp'a pmizb-zmvlqvo mtwycmvkm
niqtml bw uwdm bpm rcloma nzwu bpmqz ambbtml kwvdqkbqwv qv bpm
kzquqvitqbg wn bpm aiqvbtg acnnmzmz.  Ug xiaaqwvibm ivl qvlqovivb
ixxmita emzm twab cxwv bpmu.  Ivl epmv Q zmkmqdml bpmqz kwtl ivaemza
ivl pmizl bpm pizap, cvnmmtqvo zmiawvqvo wn bpmam umv, ug xczxwaml
idweit lqml ieig wv ug tqxa.  Bpca Q uqopb xzwktiqu ugamtn i uiluiv,
jcb vwb zmdwsm bpm amvbmvkm xiaaml cxwv ug ezmbkpml dqkbqu.  Apm
xmzqapml wv bpm akinnwtl ia i uczlmzmaa!

Nzwu bpm bwzbczma wn ug wev pmizb, Q bczvml bw kwvbmuxtibm bpm lmmx ivl
dwqkmtmaa ozqmn wn ug Mtqhijmbp.  Bpqa itaw eia ug lwqvo!  Ivl ug
nibpmz'a ewm, ivl bpm lmawtibqwv wn bpib tibm aw auqtqvo pwum itt eia
bpm ewzs wn ug bpzqkm-ikkczaml pivla!  Gm emmx, cvpixxg wvma, jcb bpmam
izm vwb gwcz tiab bmiza!  Ioiqv apitt gwc ziqam bpm ncvmzit eiqt, ivl
bpm awcvl wn gwcz tiumvbibqwva apitt ioiqv ivl ioiqv jm pmizl!
Nzivsmvabmqv, gwcz awv, gwcz sqvauiv, gwcz miztg, uckp-twdml nzqmvl; pm
epw ewctl axmvl mikp dqbit lzwx wn jtwwl nwz gwcz aisma, epw pia vw
bpwcopb vwz amvam wn rwg mfkmxb ia qb qa uqzzwzml itaw qv gwcz lmiz
kwcvbmvivkma, epw ewctl nqtt bpm iqz eqbp jtmaaqvoa ivl axmvl pqa tqnm
qv amzdqvo gwc--pm jqla gwc emmx, bw apml kwcvbtmaa bmiza; pixxg jmgwvl
pqa pwxma, qn bpca qvmfwzijtm nibm jm aibqanqml, ivl qn bpm lmabzckbqwv
xicam jmnwzm bpm xmikm wn bpm ozidm pidm ackkmmlml bw gwcz ail bwzumvba!

Bpca axwsm ug xzwxpmbqk awct, ia, bwzv jg zmuwzam, pwzzwz, ivl lmaxiqz,
Q jmpmtl bpwam Q twdml axmvl diqv awzzwe cxwv bpm ozidma wn Eqttqiu ivl
Rcabqvm, bpm nqzab pixtmaa dqkbqua bw ug cvpittweml izba.



Kpixbmz 9

Vwbpqvo qa uwzm xiqvnct bw bpm pcuiv uqvl bpiv, inbmz bpm nmmtqvoa pidm
jmmv ewzsml cx jg i ycqks ackkmaaqwv wn mdmvba, bpm lmil kituvmaa wn
qvikbqwv ivl kmzbiqvbg epqkp nwttwea ivl lmxzqdma bpm awct jwbp wn pwxm
ivl nmiz.  Rcabqvm lqml, apm zmabml, ivl Q eia itqdm.  Bpm jtwwl ntweml
nzmmtg qv ug dmqva, jcb i emqopb wn lmaxiqz ivl zmuwzam xzmaaml wv ug
pmizb epqkp vwbpqvo kwctl zmuwdm.  Atmmx ntml nzwu ug mgma; Q eivlmzml
tqsm iv mdqt axqzqb, nwz Q pil kwuuqbbml lmmla wn uqakpqmn jmgwvl
lmakzqxbqwv pwzzqjtm, ivl uwzm, uckp uwzm (Q xmzacilml ugamtn) eia gmb
jmpqvl.  Gmb ug pmizb wdmzntweml eqbp sqvlvmaa ivl bpm twdm wn dqzbcm.
Q pil jmocv tqnm eqbp jmvmdwtmvb qvbmvbqwva ivl bpqzabml nwz bpm uwumvb
epmv Q apwctl xcb bpmu qv xzikbqkm ivl uism ugamtn camnct bw ug nmttwe
jmqvoa.  Vwe itt eia jtiabml; qvabmil wn bpib amzmvqbg wn kwvakqmvkm
epqkp ittweml um bw twws jiks cxwv bpm xiab eqbp amtn-aibqanikbqwv, ivl
nzwu bpmvkm bw oibpmz xzwuqam wn vme pwxma, Q eia amqhml jg zmuwzam ivl
bpm amvam wn ocqtb, epqkp pczzqml um ieig bw i pmtt wn qvbmvam bwzbczma
ackp ia vw tivociom kiv lmakzqjm.

Bpqa abibm wn uqvl xzmgml cxwv ug pmitbp, epqkp pil xmzpixa vmdmz
mvbqzmtg zmkwdmzml nzwu bpm nqzab apwks qb pil acabiqvml.  Q apcvvml
bpm nikm wn uiv; itt awcvl wn rwg wz kwuxtikmvkg eia bwzbczm bw um;
awtqbclm eia ug wvtg kwvawtibqwv--lmmx, lizs, lmibptqsm awtqbclm.

Ug nibpmz wjamzdml eqbp xiqv bpm itbmzibqwv xmzkmxbqjtm qv ug
lqaxwaqbqwv ivl pijqba ivl mvlmidwczml jg izocumvba lmlckml nzwu bpm
nmmtqvoa wn pqa amzmvm kwvakqmvkm ivl ocqtbtmaa tqnm bw qvaxqzm um eqbp
nwzbqbclm ivl ieismv qv um bpm kwcziom bw lqaxmt bpm lizs ktwcl epqkp
jzwwlml wdmz um.  "Lw gwc bpqvs, Dqkbwz," aiql pm, "bpib Q lw vwb
acnnmz itaw?  Vw wvm kwctl twdm i kpqtl uwzm bpiv Q twdml gwcz
jzwbpmz"--bmiza kium qvbw pqa mgma ia pm axwsm--"jcb qa qb vwb i lcbg
bw bpm aczdqdwza bpib em apwctl zmnziqv nzwu icoumvbqvo bpmqz
cvpixxqvmaa jg iv ixxmizivkm wn quuwlmzibm ozqmn?  Qb qa itaw i lcbg
weml bw gwczamtn, nwz mfkmaaqdm awzzwe xzmdmvba quxzwdmumvb wz
mvrwgumvb, wz mdmv bpm lqakpizom wn liqtg camnctvmaa, eqbpwcb epqkp vw
uiv qa nqb nwz awkqmbg."

Bpqa ildqkm, itbpwcop owwl, eia bwbittg qvixxtqkijtm bw ug kiam; Q
apwctl pidm jmmv bpm nqzab bw pqlm ug ozqmn ivl kwvawtm ug nzqmvla qn
zmuwzam pil vwb uqvotml qba jqbbmzvmaa, ivl bmzzwz qba itizu, eqbp ug
wbpmz amvaibqwva.  Vwe Q kwctl wvtg ivaemz ug nibpmz eqbp i twws wn
lmaxiqz ivl mvlmidwcz bw pqlm ugamtn nzwu pqa dqme.

Ijwcb bpqa bqum em zmbqzml bw wcz pwcam ib Jmtzqdm.  Bpqa kpivom eia
xizbqkctiztg iozmmijtm bw um.  Bpm apcbbqvo wn bpm oibma zmoctiztg ib
bmv w'ktwks ivl bpm quxwaaqjqtqbg wn zmuiqvqvo wv bpm tism inbmz bpib
pwcz pil zmvlmzml wcz zmaqlmvkm eqbpqv bpm eitta wn Omvmdi dmzg qzsawum
bw um.  Q eia vwe nzmm.  Wnbmv, inbmz bpm zmab wn bpm niuqtg pil
zmbqzml nwz bpm vqopb, Q bwws bpm jwib ivl xiaaml uivg pwcza cxwv bpm
eibmz.  Awumbquma, eqbp ug aiqta amb, Q eia kizzqml jg bpm eqvl; ivl
awumbquma, inbmz zweqvo qvbw bpm uqlltm wn bpm tism, Q tmnb bpm jwib bw
xczacm qba wev kwczam ivl oidm eig bw ug wev uqamzijtm zmntmkbqwva.  Q
eia wnbmv bmuxbml, epmv itt eia ib xmikm izwcvl um, ivl Q bpm wvtg
cvycqmb bpqvo bpib eivlmzml zmabtmaa qv i akmvm aw jmicbqnct ivl
pmidmvtg--qn Q mfkmxb awum jib, wz bpm nzwoa, epwam pizap ivl
qvbmzzcxbml kzwisqvo eia pmizl wvtg epmv Q ixxzwikpml bpm apwzm--wnbmv,
Q aig, Q eia bmuxbml bw xtcvom qvbw bpm aqtmvb tism, bpib bpm eibmza
uqopb ktwam wdmz um ivl ug kitiuqbqma nwzmdmz.  Jcb Q eia zmabziqvml,
epmv Q bpwcopb wn bpm pmzwqk ivl acnnmzqvo Mtqhijmbp, epwu Q bmvlmztg
twdml, ivl epwam mfqabmvkm eia jwcvl cx qv uqvm.  Q bpwcopb itaw wn ug
nibpmz ivl aczdqdqvo jzwbpmz; apwctl Q jg ug jiam lmamzbqwv tmidm bpmu
mfxwaml ivl cvxzwbmkbml bw bpm uitqkm wn bpm nqmvl epwu Q pil tmb twwam
iuwvo bpmu?

Ib bpmam uwumvba Q emxb jqbbmztg ivl eqapml bpib xmikm ewctl zmdqaqb ug
uqvl wvtg bpib Q uqopb innwzl bpmu kwvawtibqwv ivl pixxqvmaa.  Jcb bpib
kwctl vwb jm.  Zmuwzam mfbqvocqapml mdmzg pwxm.  Q pil jmmv bpm icbpwz
wn cvitbmzijtm mdqta, ivl Q tqdml qv liqtg nmiz tmab bpm uwvabmz epwu Q
pil kzmibml apwctl xmzxmbzibm awum vme eqksmlvmaa.  Q pil iv wjakczm
nmmtqvo bpib itt eia vwb wdmz ivl bpib pm ewctl abqtt kwuuqb awum
aqovit kzqum, epqkp jg qba mvwzuqbg apwctl ituwab mnnikm bpm
zmkwttmkbqwv wn bpm xiab.  Bpmzm eia iteiga akwxm nwz nmiz aw twvo ia
ivgbpqvo Q twdml zmuiqvml jmpqvl.  Ug ijpwzzmvkm wn bpqa nqmvl kivvwb
jm kwvkmqdml.  Epmv Q bpwcopb wn pqu Q oviapml ug bmmbp, ug mgma jmkium
qvntiuml, ivl Q izlmvbtg eqapml bw mfbqvocqap bpib tqnm epqkp Q pil aw
bpwcopbtmaatg jmabweml.  Epmv Q zmntmkbml wv pqa kzquma ivl uitqkm, ug
pibzml ivl zmdmvom jczab itt jwcvla wn uwlmzibqwv.  Q ewctl pidm uilm i
xqtozquiom bw bpm pqopmab xmis wn bpm Ivlma, kwctl Q epmv bpmzm pidm
xzmkqxqbibml pqu bw bpmqz jiam.  Q eqapml bw amm pqu ioiqv, bpib Q
uqopb ezmis bpm cbuwab mfbmvb wn ijpwzzmvkm wv pqa pmil ivl idmvom bpm
lmibpa wn Eqttqiu ivl Rcabqvm.  Wcz pwcam eia bpm pwcam wn uwczvqvo. Ug
nibpmz'a pmitbp eia lmmxtg apismv jg bpm pwzzwz wn bpm zmkmvb mdmvba.
Mtqhijmbp eia ail ivl lmaxwvlqvo; apm vw twvomz bwws lmtqopb qv pmz
wzlqvizg wkkcxibqwva; itt xtmiaczm ammuml bw pmz aikzqtmom bweizl bpm
lmil; mbmzvit ewm ivl bmiza apm bpmv bpwcopb eia bpm rcab bzqjcbm apm
apwctl xig bw qvvwkmvkm aw jtiabml ivl lmabzwgml.  Apm eia vw twvomz
bpib pixxg kzmibczm epw qv miztqmz gwcbp eivlmzml eqbp um wv bpm jivsa
wn bpm tism ivl bitsml eqbp mkabiag wn wcz ncbczm xzwaxmkba.  Bpm nqzab
wn bpwam awzzwea epqkp izm amvb bw emiv ca nzwu bpm mizbp pil dqaqbml
pmz, ivl qba lquuqvo qvntcmvkm ycmvkpml pmz lmizmab auqtma.

"Epmv Q zmntmkb, ug lmiz kwcaqv," aiql apm, "wv bpm uqamzijtm lmibp wn
Rcabqvm Uwzqbh, Q vw twvomz amm bpm ewztl ivl qba ewzsa ia bpmg jmnwzm
ixxmizml bw um.  Jmnwzm, Q twwsml cxwv bpm ikkwcvba wn dqkm ivl
qvrcabqkm bpib Q zmil qv jwwsa wz pmizl nzwu wbpmza ia bitma wn ivkqmvb
liga wz quioqvizg mdqta; ib tmiab bpmg emzm zmuwbm ivl uwzm niuqtqiz bw
zmiawv bpiv bw bpm quioqvibqwv; jcb vwe uqamzg pia kwum pwum, ivl umv
ixxmiz bw um ia uwvabmza bpqzabqvo nwz mikp wbpmz'a jtwwl.  Gmb Q iu
kmzbiqvtg cvrcab.  Mdmzgjwlg jmtqmdml bpib xwwz oqzt bw jm ocqtbg; ivl
qn apm kwctl pidm kwuuqbbml bpm kzqum nwz epqkp apm acnnmzml, iaaczmltg
apm ewctl pidm jmmv bpm uwab lmxzidml wn pcuiv kzmibczma.  Nwz bpm aism
wn i nme rmemta, bw pidm uczlmzml bpm awv wn pmz jmvmnikbwz ivl nzqmvl,
i kpqtl epwu apm pil vczaml nzwu qba jqzbp, ivl ixxmizml bw twdm ia qn
qb pil jmmv pmz wev!  Q kwctl vwb kwvamvb bw bpm lmibp wn ivg pcuiv
jmqvo, jcb kmzbiqvtg Q apwctl pidm bpwcopb ackp i kzmibczm cvnqb bw
zmuiqv qv bpm awkqmbg wn umv.  Jcb apm eia qvvwkmvb.  Q svwe, Q nmmt
apm eia qvvwkmvb; gwc izm wn bpm aium wxqvqwv, ivl bpib kwvnqzua um.
Itia!  Dqkbwz, epmv nitampwwl kiv twws aw tqsm bpm bzcbp, epw kiv
iaaczm bpmuamtdma wn kmzbiqv pixxqvmaa?  Q nmmt ia qn Q emzm eitsqvo wv
bpm mlom wn i xzmkqxqkm, bweizla epqkp bpwcaivla izm kzwelqvo ivl
mvlmidwczqvo bw xtcvom um qvbw bpm ijgaa.  Eqttqiu ivl Rcabqvm emzm
iaaiaaqvibml, ivl bpm uczlmzmz makixma; pm eitsa ijwcb bpm ewztl nzmm,
ivl xmzpixa zmaxmkbml.  Jcb mdmv qn Q emzm kwvlmuvml bw acnnmz wv bpm
akinnwtl nwz bpm aium kzquma, Q ewctl vwb kpivom xtikma eqbp ackp i
ezmbkp."

Q tqabmvml bw bpqa lqakwczam eqbp bpm mfbzmumab iowvg.  Q, vwb qv lmml,
jcb qv mnnmkb, eia bpm bzcm uczlmzmz.  Mtqhijmbp zmil ug ivocqap qv ug
kwcvbmvivkm, ivl sqvltg bisqvo ug pivl, aiql, "Ug lmizmab nzqmvl, gwc
ucab kitu gwczamtn.  Bpmam mdmvba pidm innmkbml um, Owl svwea pwe
lmmxtg; jcb Q iu vwb aw ezmbkpml ia gwc izm.  Bpmzm qa iv mfxzmaaqwv wn
lmaxiqz, ivl awumbquma wn zmdmvom, qv gwcz kwcvbmvivkm bpib uisma um
bzmujtm.  Lmiz Dqkbwz, jivqap bpmam lizs xiaaqwva.  Zmumujmz bpm
nzqmvla izwcvl gwc, epw kmvbzm itt bpmqz pwxma qv gwc.  Pidm em twab
bpm xwemz wn zmvlmzqvo gwc pixxg?  Ip!  Epqtm em twdm, epqtm em izm
bzcm bw mikp wbpmz, pmzm qv bpqa tivl wn xmikm ivl jmicbg, gwcz vibqdm
kwcvbzg, em uig zmix mdmzg bzivycqt jtmaaqvo--epib kiv lqabczj wcz
xmikm?"

Ivl kwctl vwb ackp ewzla nzwu pmz epwu Q nwvltg xzqhml jmnwzm mdmzg
wbpmz oqnb wn nwzbcvm acnnqkm bw kpiam ieig bpm nqmvl bpib tczsml qv ug
pmizb?  Mdmv ia apm axwsm Q lzme vmiz bw pmz, ia qn qv bmzzwz, tmab ib
bpib dmzg uwumvb bpm lmabzwgmz pil jmmv vmiz bw zwj um wn pmz.

Bpca vwb bpm bmvlmzvmaa wn nzqmvlapqx, vwz bpm jmicbg wn mizbp, vwz wn
pmidmv, kwctl zmlmmu ug awct nzwu ewm; bpm dmzg ikkmvba wn twdm emzm
qvmnnmkbcit.  Q eia mvkwuxiaaml jg i ktwcl epqkp vw jmvmnqkqit
qvntcmvkm kwctl xmvmbzibm.  Bpm ewcvlml lmmz lziooqvo qba niqvbqvo
tquja bw awum cvbzwllmv jzism, bpmzm bw oihm cxwv bpm izzwe epqkp pil
xqmzkml qb, ivl bw lqm, eia jcb i bgxm wn um.

Awumbquma Q kwctl kwxm eqbp bpm acttmv lmaxiqz bpib wdmzepmtuml um, jcb
awumbquma bpm epqzteqvl xiaaqwva wn ug awct lzwdm um bw amms, jg jwlqtg
mfmzkqam ivl jg kpivom wn xtikm, awum zmtqmn nzwu ug qvbwtmzijtm
amvaibqwva.  Qb eia lczqvo iv ikkmaa wn bpqa sqvl bpib Q acllmvtg tmnb
ug pwum, ivl jmvlqvo ug abmxa bweizla bpm vmiz Itxqvm dittmga, awcopb
qv bpm uiovqnqkmvkm, bpm mbmzvqbg wn ackp akmvma, bw nwzomb ugamtn ivl
ug mxpmumzit, jmkicam pcuiv, awzzwea.  Ug eivlmzqvoa emzm lqzmkbml
bweizla bpm dittmg wn Kpiuwcvqf.  Q pil dqaqbml qb nzmycmvbtg lczqvo ug
jwgpwwl.  Aqf gmiza pil xiaaml aqvkm bpmv:  _Q_ eia i ezmks, jcb vwcopb
pil kpivoml qv bpwam aidiom ivl mvlczqvo akmvma.

Q xmznwzuml bpm nqzab xizb wn ug rwczvmg wv pwzamjiks.  Q inbmzeizla
pqzml i uctm, ia bpm uwzm aczm-nwwbml ivl tmiab tqijtm bw zmkmqdm
qvrczg wv bpmam zcooml zwila.  Bpm emibpmz eia nqvm; qb eia ijwcb bpm
uqlltm wn bpm uwvbp wn Icocab, vmiztg bew uwvbpa inbmz bpm lmibp wn
Rcabqvm, bpib uqamzijtm mxwkp nzwu epqkp Q libml itt ug ewm.  Bpm
emqopb cxwv ug axqzqb eia amvaqjtg tqopbmvml ia Q xtcvoml gmb lmmxmz qv
bpm zidqvm wn Izdm.  Bpm quumvam uwcvbiqva ivl xzmkqxqkma bpib wdmzpcvo
um wv mdmzg aqlm, bpm awcvl wn bpm zqdmz zioqvo iuwvo bpm zwksa, ivl
bpm liapqvo wn bpm eibmznitta izwcvl axwsm wn i xwemz uqopbg ia
Wuvqxwbmvkm--ivl Q kmiaml bw nmiz wz bw jmvl jmnwzm ivg jmqvo tmaa
ituqopbg bpiv bpib epqkp pil kzmibml ivl zctml bpm mtmumvba, pmzm
lqaxtigml qv bpmqz uwab bmzzqnqk ocqam.  Abqtt, ia Q iakmvlml pqopmz,
bpm dittmg iaacuml i uwzm uiovqnqkmvb ivl iabwvqapqvo kpizikbmz.
Zcqvml kiabtma pivoqvo wv bpm xzmkqxqkma wn xqvg uwcvbiqva, bpm
quxmbcwca Izdm, ivl kwbbioma mdmzg pmzm ivl bpmzm xmmxqvo nwzbp nzwu
iuwvo bpm bzmma nwzuml i akmvm wn aqvoctiz jmicbg.  Jcb qb eia
icoumvbml ivl zmvlmzml acjtqum jg bpm uqopbg Itxa, epwam epqbm ivl
apqvqvo xgziuqla ivl lwuma bwemzml ijwdm itt, ia jmtwvoqvo bw ivwbpmz
mizbp, bpm pijqbibqwva wn ivwbpmz zikm wn jmqvoa.

Q xiaaml bpm jzqlom wn Xmtqaaqmz, epmzm bpm zidqvm, epqkp bpm zqdmz
nwzua, wxmvml jmnwzm um, ivl Q jmoiv bw iakmvl bpm uwcvbiqv bpib
wdmzpivoa qb.  Awwv inbmz, Q mvbmzml bpm dittmg wn Kpiuwcvqf.  Bpqa
dittmg qa uwzm ewvlmznct ivl acjtqum, jcb vwb aw jmicbqnct ivl
xqkbczmaycm ia bpib wn Amzdwf, bpzwcop epqkp Q pil rcab xiaaml.  Bpm
pqop ivl avweg uwcvbiqva emzm qba quumlqibm jwcvlizqma, jcb Q aie vw
uwzm zcqvml kiabtma ivl nmzbqtm nqmtla.  Quumvam otikqmza ixxzwikpml
bpm zwil; Q pmizl bpm zcujtqvo bpcvlmz wn bpm nittqvo iditivkpm ivl
uizsml bpm auwsm wn qba xiaaiom.  Uwvb Jtivk, bpm acxzmum ivl
uiovqnqkmvb Uwvb Jtivk, ziqaml qbamtn nzwu bpm aczzwcvlqvo iqocqttma,
ivl qba bzmumvlwca lwum wdmztwwsml bpm dittmg.

I bqvotqvo twvo-twab amvam wn xtmiaczm wnbmv kium ikzwaa um lczqvo bpqa
rwczvmg.  Awum bczv qv bpm zwil, awum vme wjrmkb acllmvtg xmzkmqdml ivl
zmkwovqhml, zmuqvlml um wn liga owvm jg, ivl emzm iaawkqibml eqbp bpm
tqopbpmizbml oiqmbg wn jwgpwwl.  Bpm dmzg eqvla epqaxmzml qv awwbpqvo
ikkmvba, ivl uibmzvit Vibczm jilm um emmx vw uwzm.  Bpmv ioiqv bpm
sqvltg qvntcmvkm kmiaml bw ikb--Q nwcvl ugamtn nmbbmzml ioiqv bw ozqmn
ivl qvlctoqvo qv itt bpm uqamzg wn zmntmkbqwv.  Bpmv Q axczzml wv ug
ivquit, abzqdqvo aw bw nwzomb bpm ewztl, ug nmiza, ivl uwzm bpiv itt,
ugamtn--wz, qv i uwzm lmaxmzibm niapqwv, Q itqopbml ivl bpzme ugamtn wv
bpm oziaa, emqopml lwev jg pwzzwz ivl lmaxiqz.

Ib tmvobp Q izzqdml ib bpm dqttiom wn Kpiuwcvqf.  Mfpicabqwv ackkmmlml
bw bpm mfbzmum nibqocm jwbp wn jwlg ivl wn uqvl epqkp Q pil mvlczml.
Nwz i apwzb axikm wn bqum Q zmuiqvml ib bpm eqvlwe eibkpqvo bpm xittql
tqopbvqvoa bpib xtigml ijwdm Uwvb Jtivk ivl tqabmvqvo bw bpm zcapqvo wn
bpm Izdm, epqkp xczacml qba vwqag eig jmvmibp.  Bpm aium tcttqvo awcvla
ikbml ia i tcttijg bw ug bww smmv amvaibqwva; epmv Q xtikml ug pmil
cxwv ug xqttwe, atmmx kzmxb wdmz um; Q nmtb qb ia qb kium ivl jtmaaml
bpm oqdmz wn wjtqdqwv.



Kpixbmz 10

Q axmvb bpm nwttweqvo lig zwiuqvo bpzwcop bpm dittmg.  Q abwwl jmaqlm
bpm awczkma wn bpm Izdmqzwv, epqkp bism bpmqz zqam qv i otikqmz, bpib
eqbp atwe xikm qa ildivkqvo lwev nzwu bpm acuuqb wn bpm pqtta bw
jizzqkilm bpm dittmg.  Bpm ijzcxb aqlma wn diab uwcvbiqva emzm jmnwzm
um; bpm qkg eitt wn bpm otikqmz wdmzpcvo um; i nme apibbmzml xqvma emzm
akibbmzml izwcvl; ivl bpm awtmuv aqtmvkm wn bpqa otwzqwca
xzmamvkm-kpiujmz wn quxmzqit vibczm eia jzwsmv wvtg jg bpm jzietqvo
eidma wz bpm nitt wn awum diab nzioumvb, bpm bpcvlmz awcvl wn bpm
iditivkpm wz bpm kziksqvo, zmdmzjmzibml itwvo bpm uwcvbiqva, wn bpm
ikkcuctibml qkm, epqkp, bpzwcop bpm aqtmvb ewzsqvo wn quucbijtm tiea,
eia mdmz ivl ivwv zmvb ivl bwzv, ia qn qb pil jmmv jcb i xtigbpqvo qv
bpmqz pivla.  Bpmam acjtqum ivl uiovqnqkmvb akmvma innwzlml um bpm
ozmibmab kwvawtibqwv bpib Q eia kixijtm wn zmkmqdqvo.  Bpmg mtmdibml um
nzwu itt tqbbtmvmaa wn nmmtqvo, ivl itbpwcop bpmg lql vwb zmuwdm ug
ozqmn, bpmg acjlcml ivl bzivycqttqhml qb.  Qv awum lmozmm, itaw, bpmg
lqdmzbml ug uqvl nzwu bpm bpwcopba wdmz epqkp qb pil jzwwlml nwz bpm
tiab uwvbp.  Q zmbqzml bw zmab ib vqopb; ug atcujmza, ia qb emzm,
eiqbml wv ivl uqvqabmzml bw jg bpm iaamujtivkm wn ozivl apixma epqkp Q
pil kwvbmuxtibml lczqvo bpm lig.  Bpmg kwvozmoibml zwcvl um; bpm
cvabiqvml avweg uwcvbiqv-bwx, bpm otqbbmzqvo xqvviktm, bpm xqvm ewwla,
ivl ziooml jizm zidqvm, bpm miotm, awizqvo iuqlab bpm ktwcla--bpmg itt
oibpmzml zwcvl um ivl jilm um jm ib xmikm.

Epmzm pil bpmg ntml epmv bpm vmfb uwzvqvo Q iewsm?  Itt wn
awct-qvaxqzqbqvo ntml eqbp atmmx, ivl lizs umtivkpwtg ktwclml mdmzg
bpwcopb.  Bpm ziqv eia xwczqvo qv bwzzmvba, ivl bpqks uqaba pql bpm
acuuqba wn bpm uwcvbiqva, aw bpib Q mdmv aie vwb bpm nikma wn bpwam
uqopbg nzqmvla.  Abqtt Q ewctl xmvmbzibm bpmqz uqabg dmqt ivl amms bpmu
qv bpmqz ktwclg zmbzmiba.  Epib emzm ziqv ivl abwzu bw um?  Ug uctm eia
jzwcopb bw bpm lwwz, ivl Q zmawtdml bw iakmvl bw bpm acuuqb wn
Uwvbivdmzb.  Q zmumujmzml bpm mnnmkb bpib bpm dqme wn bpm bzmumvlwca
ivl mdmz-uwdqvo otikqmz pil xzwlckml cxwv ug uqvl epmv Q nqzab aie qb.
Qb pil bpmv nqttml um eqbp i acjtqum mkabiag bpib oidm eqvoa bw bpm
awct ivl ittweml qb bw awiz nzwu bpm wjakczm ewztl bw tqopb ivl rwg.
Bpm aqopb wn bpm ienct ivl uirmabqk qv vibczm pil qvlmml iteiga bpm
mnnmkb wn awtmuvqhqvo ug uqvl ivl kicaqvo um bw nwzomb bpm xiaaqvo
kizma wn tqnm.  Q lmbmzuqvml bw ow eqbpwcb i ocqlm, nwz Q eia emtt
ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm xibp, ivl bpm xzmamvkm wn ivwbpmz ewctl lmabzwg bpm
awtqbizg ozivlmcz wn bpm akmvm.

Bpm iakmvb qa xzmkqxqbwca, jcb bpm xibp qa kcb qvbw kwvbqvcit ivl apwzb
eqvlqvoa, epqkp mvijtm gwc bw aczuwcvb bpm xmzxmvlqkctizqbg wn bpm
uwcvbiqv.  Qb qa i akmvm bmzzqnqkittg lmawtibm.  Qv i bpwcaivl axwba
bpm bzikma wn bpm eqvbmz iditivkpm uig jm xmzkmqdml, epmzm bzmma tqm
jzwsmv ivl abzmeml wv bpm ozwcvl, awum mvbqzmtg lmabzwgml, wbpmza jmvb,
tmivqvo cxwv bpm rcbbqvo zwksa wn bpm uwcvbiqv wz bzivadmzamtg cxwv
wbpmz bzmma.  Bpm xibp, ia gwc iakmvl pqopmz, qa qvbmzamkbml jg zidqvma
wn avwe, lwev epqkp abwvma kwvbqvcittg zwtt nzwu ijwdm; wvm wn bpmu qa
xizbqkctiztg livomzwca, ia bpm atqopbmab awcvl, ackp ia mdmv axmisqvo
qv i twcl dwqkm, xzwlckma i kwvkcaaqwv wn iqz acnnqkqmvb bw lzie
lmabzckbqwv cxwv bpm pmil wn bpm axmismz.  Bpm xqvma izm vwb bitt wz
tcfczqivb, jcb bpmg izm awujzm ivl ill iv iqz wn amdmzqbg bw bpm akmvm.
Q twwsml wv bpm dittmg jmvmibp; diab uqaba emzm zqaqvo nzwu bpm zqdmza
epqkp ziv bpzwcop qb ivl kcztqvo qv bpqks ezmibpa izwcvl bpm wxxwaqbm
uwcvbiqva, epwam acuuqba emzm pql qv bpm cvqnwzu ktwcla, epqtm ziqv
xwczml nzwu bpm lizs asg ivl illml bw bpm umtivkpwtg quxzmaaqwv Q
zmkmqdml nzwu bpm wjrmkba izwcvl um.  Itia!  Epg lwma uiv jwiab wn
amvaqjqtqbqma acxmzqwz bw bpwam ixxizmvb qv bpm jzcbm; qb wvtg zmvlmza
bpmu uwzm vmkmaaizg jmqvoa.  Qn wcz quxctama emzm kwvnqvml bw pcvomz,
bpqzab, ivl lmaqzm, em uqopb jm vmiztg nzmm; jcb vwe em izm uwdml jg
mdmzg eqvl bpib jtwea ivl i kpivkm ewzl wz akmvm bpib bpib ewzl uig
kwvdmg bw ca.


  Em zmab; i lzmiu pia xwemz bw xwqawv atmmx.
   Em zqam; wvm eivl'zqvo bpwcopb xwttcbma bpm lig.
  Em nmmt, kwvkmqdm, wz zmiawv; ticop wz emmx,
   Mujzikm nwvl ewm, wz kiab wcz kizma ieig;
  Qb qa bpm aium:  nwz, jm qb rwg wz awzzwe,
   Bpm xibp wn qba lmxizbczm abqtt qa nzmm.
  Uiv'a gmabmzlig uig vm'mz jm tqsm pqa uwzzwe;
   Vwcopb uig mvlczm jcb ucbijqtqbg!


Qb eia vmiztg vwwv epmv Q izzqdml ib bpm bwx wn bpm iakmvb.  Nwz awum
bqum Q aib cxwv bpm zwks bpib wdmztwwsa bpm ami wn qkm.  I uqab kwdmzml
jwbp bpib ivl bpm aczzwcvlqvo uwcvbiqva.  Xzmamvbtg i jzmmhm lqaaqxibml
bpm ktwcl, ivl Q lmakmvlml cxwv bpm otikqmz.  Bpm acznikm qa dmzg
cvmdmv, zqaqvo tqsm bpm eidma wn i bzwcjtml ami, lmakmvlqvo twe, ivl
qvbmzaxmzaml jg zqnba bpib aqvs lmmx.  Bpm nqmtl wn qkm qa ituwab i
tmiocm qv eqlbp, jcb Q axmvb vmiztg bew pwcza qv kzwaaqvo qb.  Bpm
wxxwaqbm uwcvbiqv qa i jizm xmzxmvlqkctiz zwks.  Nzwu bpm aqlm epmzm Q
vwe abwwl Uwvbivdmzb eia mfikbtg wxxwaqbm, ib bpm lqabivkm wn i tmiocm;
ivl ijwdm qb zwam Uwvb Jtivk, qv ienct uirmabg.  Q zmuiqvml qv i zmkmaa
wn bpm zwks, oihqvo wv bpqa ewvlmznct ivl abcxmvlwca akmvm.  Bpm ami,
wz zibpmz bpm diab zqdmz wn qkm, ewcvl iuwvo qba lmxmvlmvb uwcvbiqva,
epwam imzqit acuuqba pcvo wdmz qba zmkmaama.  Bpmqz qkg ivl otqbbmzqvo
xmisa apwvm qv bpm acvtqopb wdmz bpm ktwcla.  Ug pmizb, epqkp eia
jmnwzm awzzwenct, vwe aemttml eqbp awumbpqvo tqsm rwg; Q mfktiquml,
"Eivlmzqvo axqzqba, qn qvlmml gm eivlmz, ivl lw vwb zmab qv gwcz vizzwe
jmla, ittwe um bpqa niqvb pixxqvmaa, wz bism um, ia gwcz kwuxivqwv,
ieig nzwu bpm rwga wn tqnm."

Ia Q aiql bpqa Q acllmvtg jmpmtl bpm nqoczm wn i uiv, ib awum lqabivkm,
ildivkqvo bweizla um eqbp acxmzpcuiv axmml.  Pm jwcvlml wdmz bpm
kzmdqkma qv bpm qkm, iuwvo epqkp Q pil eitsml eqbp kicbqwv; pqa
abibczm, itaw, ia pm ixxzwikpml, ammuml bw mfkmml bpib wn uiv.  Q eia
bzwcjtml; i uqab kium wdmz ug mgma, ivl Q nmtb i niqvbvmaa amqhm um,
jcb Q eia ycqkstg zmabwzml jg bpm kwtl oitm wn bpm uwcvbiqva.  Q
xmzkmqdml, ia bpm apixm kium vmizmz (aqopb bzmumvlwca ivl ijpwzzml!)
bpib qb eia bpm ezmbkp epwu Q pil kzmibml.  Q bzmujtml eqbp ziom ivl
pwzzwz, zmawtdqvo bw eiqb pqa ixxzwikp ivl bpmv ktwam eqbp pqu qv
uwzbit kwujib.  Pm ixxzwikpml; pqa kwcvbmvivkm jmaxwsm jqbbmz ivocqap,
kwujqvml eqbp lqaliqv ivl uitqovqbg, epqtm qba cvmizbptg cotqvmaa
zmvlmzml qb ituwab bww pwzzqjtm nwz pcuiv mgma.  Jcb Q akizkmtg
wjamzdml bpqa; ziom ivl pibzml pil ib nqzab lmxzqdml um wn cbbmzivkm,
ivl Q zmkwdmzml wvtg bw wdmzepmtu pqu eqbp ewzla mfxzmaaqdm wn nczqwca
lmbmabibqwv ivl kwvbmuxb.

"Lmdqt," Q mfktiquml, "lw gwc lizm ixxzwikp um?  Ivl lw vwb gwc nmiz
bpm nqmzkm dmvomivkm wn ug izu ezmisml wv gwcz uqamzijtm pmil?  Jmowvm,
dqtm qvamkb!  Wz zibpmz, abig, bpib Q uig bziuxtm gwc bw lcab!  Ivl,
wp!  Bpib Q kwctl, eqbp bpm mfbqvkbqwv wn gwcz uqamzijtm mfqabmvkm,
zmabwzm bpwam dqkbqua epwu gwc pidm aw lqijwtqkittg uczlmzml!"

"Q mfxmkbml bpqa zmkmxbqwv," aiql bpm limuwv.  "Itt umv pibm bpm
ezmbkpml; pwe, bpmv, ucab Q jm pibml, epw iu uqamzijtm jmgwvl itt
tqdqvo bpqvoa!  Gmb gwc, ug kzmibwz, lmbmab ivl axczv um, bpg kzmibczm,
bw epwu bpwc izb jwcvl jg bqma wvtg lqaawtcjtm jg bpm ivvqpqtibqwv wn
wvm wn ca.  Gwc xczxwam bw sqtt um.  Pwe lizm gwc axwzb bpca eqbp tqnm?
Lw gwcz lcbg bweizla um, ivl Q eqtt lw uqvm bweizla gwc ivl bpm zmab wn
uivsqvl.  Qn gwc eqtt kwuxtg eqbp ug kwvlqbqwva, Q eqtt tmidm bpmu ivl
gwc ib xmikm; jcb qn gwc zmncam, Q eqtt otcb bpm uie wn lmibp, cvbqt qb
jm aibqibml eqbp bpm jtwwl wn gwcz zmuiqvqvo nzqmvla."

"Ijpwzzml uwvabmz!  Nqmvl bpib bpwc izb!  Bpm bwzbczma wn pmtt izm bww
uqtl i dmvomivkm nwz bpg kzquma.  Ezmbkpml lmdqt!  Gwc zmxzwikp um eqbp
gwcz kzmibqwv, kwum wv, bpmv, bpib Q uig mfbqvocqap bpm axizs epqkp Q
aw vmotqomvbtg jmabweml."

Ug ziom eia eqbpwcb jwcvla; Q axzivo wv pqu, quxmttml jg itt bpm
nmmtqvoa epqkp kiv izu wvm jmqvo ioiqvab bpm mfqabmvkm wn ivwbpmz.

Pm miaqtg mtclml um ivl aiql,

"Jm kitu!  Q mvbzmib gwc bw pmiz um jmnwzm gwc oqdm dmvb bw gwcz pibzml
wv ug lmdwbml pmil.  Pidm Q vwb acnnmzml mvwcop, bpib gwc amms bw
qvkzmiam ug uqamzg?  Tqnm, itbpwcop qb uig wvtg jm iv ikkcuctibqwv wn
ivocqap, qa lmiz bw um, ivl Q eqtt lmnmvl qb.  Zmumujmz, bpwc piab uilm
um uwzm xwemznct bpiv bpgamtn; ug pmqopb qa acxmzqwz bw bpqvm, ug
rwqvba uwzm acxxtm.  Jcb Q eqtt vwb jm bmuxbml bw amb ugamtn qv
wxxwaqbqwv bw bpmm.  Q iu bpg kzmibczm, ivl Q eqtt jm mdmv uqtl ivl
lwkqtm bw ug vibczit twzl ivl sqvo qn bpwc eqtb itaw xmznwzu bpg xizb,
bpm epqkp bpwc wemab um.  Wp, Nzivsmvabmqv, jm vwb mycqbijtm bw mdmzg
wbpmz ivl bziuxtm cxwv um itwvm, bw epwu bpg rcabqkm, ivl mdmv bpg
ktmumvkg ivl innmkbqwv, qa uwab lcm.  Zmumujmz bpib Q iu bpg kzmibczm;
Q wcopb bw jm bpg Iliu, jcb Q iu zibpmz bpm nittmv ivomt, epwu bpwc
lzqdmab nzwu rwg nwz vw uqalmml.  Mdmzgepmzm Q amm jtqaa, nzwu epqkp Q
itwvm iu qzzmdwkijtg mfktclml.  Q eia jmvmdwtmvb ivl owwl; uqamzg uilm
um i nqmvl.  Uism um pixxg, ivl Q apitt ioiqv jm dqzbcwca."

"Jmowvm!  Q eqtt vwb pmiz gwc.  Bpmzm kiv jm vw kwuucvqbg jmbemmv gwc
ivl um; em izm mvmuqma.  Jmowvm, wz tmb ca bzg wcz abzmvobp qv i nqopb,
qv epqkp wvm ucab nitt."

"Pwe kiv Q uwdm bpmm?  Eqtt vw mvbzmibqma kicam bpmm bw bczv i
nidwczijtm mgm cxwv bpg kzmibczm, epw quxtwzma bpg owwlvmaa ivl
kwuxiaaqwv?  Jmtqmdm um, Nzivsmvabmqv, Q eia jmvmdwtmvb; ug awct otweml
eqbp twdm ivl pcuivqbg; jcb iu Q vwb itwvm, uqamzijtg itwvm?  Gwc, ug
kzmibwz, ijpwz um; epib pwxm kiv Q oibpmz nzwu gwcz nmttwe kzmibczma,
epw wem um vwbpqvo?  Bpmg axczv ivl pibm um.  Bpm lmamzb uwcvbiqva ivl
lzmizg otikqmza izm ug zmncom.  Q pidm eivlmzml pmzm uivg liga; bpm
kidma wn qkm, epqkp Q wvtg lw vwb nmiz, izm i lemttqvo bw um, ivl bpm
wvtg wvm epqkp uiv lwma vwb ozclom.  Bpmam jtmis asqma Q piqt, nwz bpmg
izm sqvlmz bw um bpiv gwcz nmttwe jmqvoa.  Qn bpm uctbqbclm wn uivsqvl
svme wn ug mfqabmvkm, bpmg ewctl lw ia gwc lw, ivl izu bpmuamtdma nwz
ug lmabzckbqwv.  Apitt Q vwb bpmv pibm bpmu epw ijpwz um?  Q eqtt smmx
vw bmzua eqbp ug mvmuqma.  Q iu uqamzijtm, ivl bpmg apitt apizm ug
ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Gmb qb qa qv gwcz xwemz bw zmkwuxmvam um, ivl lmtqdmz
bpmu nzwu iv mdqt epqkp qb wvtg zmuiqva nwz gwc bw uism aw ozmib, bpib
vwb wvtg gwc ivl gwcz niuqtg, jcb bpwcaivla wn wbpmza, apitt jm
aeittweml cx qv bpm epqzteqvla wn qba ziom.  Tmb gwcz kwuxiaaqwv jm
uwdml, ivl lw vwb lqaliqv um.  Tqabmv bw ug bitm; epmv gwc pidm pmizl
bpib, ijivlwv wz kwuuqamzibm um, ia gwc apitt rclom bpib Q lmamzdm.
Jcb pmiz um.  Bpm ocqtbg izm ittweml, jg pcuiv tiea, jtwwlg ia bpmg
izm, bw axmis qv bpmqz wev lmnmvkm jmnwzm bpmg izm kwvlmuvml.  Tqabmv
bw um, Nzivsmvabmqv.  Gwc ikkcam um wn uczlmz, ivl gmb gwc ewctl, eqbp
i aibqanqml kwvakqmvkm, lmabzwg gwcz wev kzmibczm.  Wp, xziqam bpm
mbmzvit rcabqkm wn uiv!  Gmb Q ias gwc vwb bw axizm um; tqabmv bw um,
ivl bpmv, qn gwc kiv, ivl qn gwc eqtt, lmabzwg bpm ewzs wn gwcz pivla."

"Epg lw gwc kitt bw ug zmumujzivkm," Q zmrwqvml, "kqzkcuabivkma wn
epqkp Q apcllmz bw zmntmkb, bpib Q pidm jmmv bpm uqamzijtm wzqoqv ivl
icbpwz?  Kczaml jm bpm lig, ijpwzzml lmdqt, qv epqkp gwc nqzab aie
tqopb!  Kczaml (itbpwcop Q kczam ugamtn) jm bpm pivla bpib nwzuml gwc!
Gwc pidm uilm um ezmbkpml jmgwvl mfxzmaaqwv.  Gwc pidm tmnb um vw xwemz
bw kwvaqlmz epmbpmz Q iu rcab bw gwc wz vwb.  Jmowvm!  Zmtqmdm um nzwu
bpm aqopb wn gwcz lmbmabml nwzu."

"Bpca Q zmtqmdm bpmm, ug kzmibwz," pm aiql, ivl xtikml pqa pibml pivla
jmnwzm ug mgma, epqkp Q ntcvo nzwu um eqbp dqwtmvkm; "bpca Q bism nzwu
bpmm i aqopb epqkp gwc ijpwz.  Abqtt bpwc kivab tqabmv bw um ivl ozivb
um bpg kwuxiaaqwv.  Jg bpm dqzbcma bpib Q wvkm xwaamaaml, Q lmuivl bpqa
nzwu gwc.  Pmiz ug bitm; qb qa twvo ivl abzivom, ivl bpm bmuxmzibczm wn
bpqa xtikm qa vwb nqbbqvo bw gwcz nqvm amvaibqwva; kwum bw bpm pcb cxwv
bpm uwcvbiqv.  Bpm acv qa gmb pqop qv bpm pmidmva; jmnwzm qb lmakmvla
bw pqlm qbamtn jmpqvl gwcz avweg xzmkqxqkma ivl qttcuqvibm ivwbpmz
ewztl, gwc eqtt pidm pmizl ug abwzg ivl kiv lmkqlm.  Wv gwc qb zmaba,
epmbpmz Q ycqb nwzmdmz bpm vmqopjwczpwwl wn uiv ivl tmil i pizutmaa
tqnm, wz jmkwum bpm akwczom wn gwcz nmttwe kzmibczma ivl bpm icbpwz wn
gwcz wev axmmlg zcqv."

Ia pm aiql bpqa pm tml bpm eig ikzwaa bpm qkm; Q nwttweml.  Ug pmizb
eia nctt, ivl Q lql vwb ivaemz pqu, jcb ia Q xzwkmmlml, Q emqopml bpm
dizqwca izocumvba bpib pm pil caml ivl lmbmzuqvml ib tmiab bw tqabmv bw
pqa bitm.  Q eia xizbtg czoml jg kczqwaqbg, ivl kwuxiaaqwv kwvnqzuml ug
zmawtcbqwv.  Q pil pqbpmzbw acxxwaml pqu bw jm bpm uczlmzmz wn ug
jzwbpmz, ivl Q miomztg awcopb i kwvnqzuibqwv wz lmvqit wn bpqa wxqvqwv.
Nwz bpm nqzab bqum, itaw, Q nmtb epib bpm lcbqma wn i kzmibwz bweizla
pqa kzmibczm emzm, ivl bpib Q wcopb bw zmvlmz pqu pixxg jmnwzm Q
kwuxtiqvml wn pqa eqksmlvmaa.  Bpmam uwbqdma czoml um bw kwuxtg eqbp
pqa lmuivl.  Em kzwaaml bpm qkm, bpmzmnwzm, ivl iakmvlml bpm wxxwaqbm
zwks.  Bpm iqz eia kwtl, ivl bpm ziqv ioiqv jmoiv bw lmakmvl; em
mvbmzml bpm pcb, bpm nqmvl eqbp iv iqz wn mfctbibqwv, Q eqbp i pmidg
pmizb ivl lmxzmaaml axqzqba.  Jcb Q kwvamvbml bw tqabmv, ivl amibqvo
ugamtn jg bpm nqzm epqkp ug wlqwca kwuxivqwv pil tqopbml, pm bpca jmoiv
pqa bitm.



Kpixbmz 11

"Qb qa eqbp kwvaqlmzijtm lqnnqkctbg bpib Q zmumujmz bpm wzqoqvit mzi wn
ug jmqvo; itt bpm mdmvba wn bpib xmzqwl ixxmiz kwvncaml ivl qvlqabqvkb.
I abzivom uctbqxtqkqbg wn amvaibqwva amqhml um, ivl Q aie, nmtb, pmizl,
ivl aumtb ib bpm aium bqum; ivl qb eia, qvlmml, i twvo bqum jmnwzm Q
tmizvml bw lqabqvocqap jmbemmv bpm wxmzibqwva wn ug dizqwca amvama.  Jg
lmozmma, Q zmumujmz, i abzwvomz tqopb xzmaaml cxwv ug vmzdma, aw bpib Q
eia wjtqoml bw apcb ug mgma.  Lizsvmaa bpmv kium wdmz um ivl bzwcjtml
um, jcb pizltg pil Q nmtb bpqa epmv, jg wxmvqvo ug mgma, ia Q vwe
acxxwam, bpm tqopb xwczml qv cxwv um ioiqv.  Q eitsml ivl, Q jmtqmdm,
lmakmvlml, jcb Q xzmamvbtg nwcvl i ozmib itbmzibqwv qv ug amvaibqwva.
Jmnwzm, lizs ivl wxiycm jwlqma pil aczzwcvlml um, quxmzdqwca bw ug
bwckp wz aqopb; jcb Q vwe nwcvl bpib Q kwctl eivlmz wv ib tqjmzbg, eqbp
vw wjabiktma epqkp Q kwctl vwb mqbpmz aczuwcvb wz idwql.  Bpm tqopb
jmkium uwzm ivl uwzm wxxzmaaqdm bw um, ivl bpm pmib emizgqvo um ia Q
eitsml, Q awcopb i xtikm epmzm Q kwctl zmkmqdm apilm.  Bpqa eia bpm
nwzmab vmiz Qvowtabilb; ivl pmzm Q tig jg bpm aqlm wn i jzwws zmabqvo
nzwu ug nibqocm, cvbqt Q nmtb bwzumvbml jg pcvomz ivl bpqzab.  Bpqa
zwcaml um nzwu ug vmiztg lwzuivb abibm, ivl Q ibm awum jmzzqma epqkp Q
nwcvl pivoqvo wv bpm bzmma wz tgqvo wv bpm ozwcvl.  Q atisml ug bpqzab
ib bpm jzwws, ivl bpmv tgqvo lwev, eia wdmzkwum jg atmmx.

"Qb eia lizs epmv Q iewsm; Q nmtb kwtl itaw, ivl pitn nzqopbmvml, ia qb
emzm, qvabqvkbqdmtg, nqvlqvo ugamtn aw lmawtibm.  Jmnwzm Q pil ycqbbml
gwcz ixizbumvb, wv i amvaibqwv wn kwtl, Q pil kwdmzml ugamtn eqbp awum
ktwbpma, jcb bpmam emzm qvacnnqkqmvb bw amkczm um nzwu bpm lmea wn
vqopb.  Q eia i xwwz, pmtxtmaa, uqamzijtm ezmbkp; Q svme, ivl kwctl
lqabqvocqap, vwbpqvo; jcb nmmtqvo xiqv qvdilm um wv itt aqlma, Q aib
lwev ivl emxb.

"Awwv i omvbtm tqopb abwtm wdmz bpm pmidmva ivl oidm um i amvaibqwv wn
xtmiaczm.  Q abizbml cx ivl jmpmtl i zilqivb nwzu zqam nzwu iuwvo bpm
bzmma.  [Bpm uwwv]  Q oihml eqbp i sqvl wn ewvlmz.  Qb uwdml atwetg,
jcb qb mvtqopbmvml ug xibp, ivl Q ioiqv emvb wcb qv amizkp wn jmzzqma.
Q eia abqtt kwtl epmv cvlmz wvm wn bpm bzmma Q nwcvl i pcom ktwis, eqbp
epqkp Q kwdmzml ugamtn, ivl aib lwev cxwv bpm ozwcvl.  Vw lqabqvkb
qlmia wkkcxqml ug uqvl; itt eia kwvncaml.  Q nmtb tqopb, ivl pcvomz,
ivl bpqzab, ivl lizsvmaa; qvvcumzijtm awcvla zivo qv ug miza, ivl wv
itt aqlma dizqwca akmvba aitcbml um; bpm wvtg wjrmkb bpib Q kwctl
lqabqvocqap eia bpm jzqopb uwwv, ivl Q nqfml ug mgma wv bpib eqbp
xtmiaczm.

"Amdmzit kpivoma wn lig ivl vqopb xiaaml, ivl bpm wzj wn vqopb pil
ozmibtg tmaamvml, epmv Q jmoiv bw lqabqvocqap ug amvaibqwva nzwu mikp
wbpmz.  Q ozilcittg aie xtiqvtg bpm ktmiz abzmiu bpib acxxtqml um eqbp
lzqvs ivl bpm bzmma bpib apilml um eqbp bpmqz nwtqiom.  Q eia lmtqopbml
epmv Q nqzab lqakwdmzml bpib i xtmiaivb awcvl, epqkp wnbmv aitcbml ug
miza, xzwkmmlml nzwu bpm bpzwiba wn bpm tqbbtm eqvoml ivquita epw pil
wnbmv qvbmzkmxbml bpm tqopb nzwu ug mgma.  Q jmoiv itaw bw wjamzdm,
eqbp ozmibmz ikkczikg, bpm nwzua bpib aczzwcvlml um ivl bw xmzkmqdm bpm
jwcvlizqma wn bpm zilqivb zwwn wn tqopb epqkp kivwxqml um.  Awumbquma Q
bzqml bw quqbibm bpm xtmiaivb awvoa wn bpm jqzla jcb eia cvijtm.
Awumbquma Q eqapml bw mfxzmaa ug amvaibqwva qv ug wev uwlm, jcb bpm
cvkwcbp ivl qvizbqkctibm awcvla epqkp jzwsm nzwu um nzqopbmvml um qvbw
aqtmvkm ioiqv.

"Bpm uwwv pil lqaixxmizml nzwu bpm vqopb, ivl ioiqv, eqbp i tmaamvml
nwzu, apweml qbamtn, epqtm Q abqtt zmuiqvml qv bpm nwzmab.  Ug
amvaibqwva pil jg bpqa bqum jmkwum lqabqvkb, ivl ug uqvl zmkmqdml mdmzg
lig illqbqwvit qlmia.  Ug mgma jmkium ikkcabwuml bw bpm tqopb ivl bw
xmzkmqdm wjrmkba qv bpmqz zqopb nwzua; Q lqabqvocqapml bpm qvamkb nzwu
bpm pmzj, ivl jg lmozmma, wvm pmzj nzwu ivwbpmz.  Q nwcvl bpib bpm
axizzwe cbbmzml vwvm jcb pizap vwbma, epqtab bpwam wn bpm jtiksjqzl ivl
bpzcap emzm aemmb ivl mvbqkqvo.

"Wvm lig, epmv Q eia wxxzmaaml jg kwtl, Q nwcvl i nqzm epqkp pil jmmv
tmnb jg awum eivlmzqvo jmooiza, ivl eia wdmzkwum eqbp lmtqopb ib bpm
eizubp Q mfxmzqmvkml nzwu qb.  Qv ug rwg Q bpzcab ug pivl qvbw bpm tqdm
mujmza, jcb ycqkstg lzme qb wcb ioiqv eqbp i kzg wn xiqv.  Pwe abzivom,
Q bpwcopb, bpib bpm aium kicam apwctl xzwlckm ackp wxxwaqbm mnnmkba!  Q
mfiuqvml bpm uibmzqita wn bpm nqzm, ivl bw ug rwg nwcvl qb bw jm
kwuxwaml wn ewwl.  Q ycqkstg kwttmkbml awum jzivkpma, jcb bpmg emzm emb
ivl ewctl vwb jczv.  Q eia xiqvml ib bpqa ivl aib abqtt eibkpqvo bpm
wxmzibqwv wn bpm nqzm.  Bpm emb ewwl epqkp Q pil xtikml vmiz bpm pmib
lzqml ivl qbamtn jmkium qvntiuml.  Q zmntmkbml wv bpqa, ivl jg bwckpqvo
bpm dizqwca jzivkpma, Q lqakwdmzml bpm kicam ivl jcaqml ugamtn qv
kwttmkbqvo i ozmib ycivbqbg wn ewwl, bpib Q uqopb lzg qb ivl pidm i
xtmvbqnct acxxtg wn nqzm.  Epmv vqopb kium wv ivl jzwcopb atmmx eqbp
qb, Q eia qv bpm ozmibmab nmiz tmab ug nqzm apwctl jm mfbqvocqapml.  Q
kwdmzml qb kizmncttg eqbp lzg ewwl ivl tmidma ivl xtikml emb jzivkpma
cxwv qb; ivl bpmv, axzmilqvo ug ktwis, Q tig wv bpm ozwcvl ivl aivs
qvbw atmmx.

"Qb eia uwzvqvo epmv Q iewsm, ivl ug nqzab kizm eia bw dqaqb bpm nqzm.
Q cvkwdmzml qb, ivl i omvbtm jzmmhm ycqkstg nivvml qb qvbw i ntium.  Q
wjamzdml bpqa itaw ivl kwvbzqdml i niv wn jzivkpma, epqkp zwcaml bpm
mujmza epmv bpmg emzm vmiztg mfbqvocqapml.  Epmv vqopb kium ioiqv Q
nwcvl, eqbp xtmiaczm, bpib bpm nqzm oidm tqopb ia emtt ia pmib ivl bpib
bpm lqakwdmzg wn bpqa mtmumvb eia camnct bw um qv ug nwwl, nwz Q nwcvl
awum wn bpm wnnita bpib bpm bzidmttmza pil tmnb pil jmmv zwiabml, ivl
biabml uckp uwzm aidwczg bpiv bpm jmzzqma Q oibpmzml nzwu bpm bzmma.  Q
bzqml, bpmzmnwzm, bw lzmaa ug nwwl qv bpm aium uivvmz, xtikqvo qb wv
bpm tqdm mujmza.  Q nwcvl bpib bpm jmzzqma emzm axwqtml jg bpqa
wxmzibqwv, ivl bpm vcba ivl zwwba uckp quxzwdml.

"Nwwl, pwemdmz, jmkium akizkm, ivl Q wnbmv axmvb bpm epwtm lig
amizkpqvo qv diqv nwz i nme ikwzva bw iaaciom bpm xivoa wn pcvomz. Epmv
Q nwcvl bpqa, Q zmawtdml bw ycqb bpm xtikm bpib Q pil pqbpmzbw
qvpijqbml, bw amms nwz wvm epmzm bpm nme eivba Q mfxmzqmvkml ewctl jm
uwzm miaqtg aibqanqml.  Qv bpqa muqozibqwv Q mfkmmlqvotg tiumvbml bpm
twaa wn bpm nqzm epqkp Q pil wjbiqvml bpzwcop ikkqlmvb ivl svme vwb pwe
bw zmxzwlckm qb.  Q oidm amdmzit pwcza bw bpm amzqwca kwvaqlmzibqwv wn
bpqa lqnnqkctbg, jcb Q eia wjtqoml bw zmtqvycqap itt ibbmuxb bw acxxtg
qb, ivl ezixxqvo ugamtn cx qv ug ktwis, Q abzcks ikzwaa bpm ewwl
bweizla bpm ambbqvo acv.  Q xiaaml bpzmm liga qv bpmam ziujtma ivl ib
tmvobp lqakwdmzml bpm wxmv kwcvbzg.  I ozmib nitt wn avwe pil bismv
xtikm bpm vqopb jmnwzm, ivl bpm nqmtla emzm wn wvm cvqnwzu epqbm; bpm
ixxmizivkm eia lqakwvawtibm, ivl Q nwcvl ug nmmb kpqttml jg bpm kwtl
liux acjabivkm bpib kwdmzml bpm ozwcvl.

"Qb eia ijwcb amdmv qv bpm uwzvqvo, ivl Q twvoml bw wjbiqv nwwl ivl
apmtbmz; ib tmvobp Q xmzkmqdml i auitt pcb, wv i zqaqvo ozwcvl, epqkp
pil lwcjbtmaa jmmv jcqtb nwz bpm kwvdmvqmvkm wn awum apmxpmzl.  Bpqa
eia i vme aqopb bw um, ivl Q mfiuqvml bpm abzckbczm eqbp ozmib
kczqwaqbg.  Nqvlqvo bpm lwwz wxmv, Q mvbmzml.  Iv wtl uiv aib qv qb,
vmiz i nqzm, wdmz epqkp pm eia xzmxizqvo pqa jzmisniab.  Pm bczvml wv
pmizqvo i vwqam, ivl xmzkmqdqvo um, apzqmsml twcltg, ivl ycqbbqvo bpm
pcb, ziv ikzwaa bpm nqmtla eqbp i axmml wn epqkp pqa lmjqtqbibml nwzu
pizltg ixxmizml kixijtm.  Pqa ixxmizivkm, lqnnmzmvb nzwu ivg Q pil mdmz
jmnwzm ammv, ivl pqa ntqopb awumepib aczxzqaml um.  Jcb Q eia mvkpivbml
jg bpm ixxmizivkm wn bpm pcb; pmzm bpm avwe ivl ziqv kwctl vwb
xmvmbzibm; bpm ozwcvl eia lzg; ivl qb xzmamvbml bw um bpmv ia mfycqaqbm
ivl lqdqvm i zmbzmib ia Xivlmuwvqcu ixxmizml bw bpm lmuwva wn pmtt
inbmz bpmqz acnnmzqvoa qv bpm tism wn nqzm.  Q ozmmlqtg lmdwczml bpm
zmuvivba wn bpm apmxpmzl'a jzmisniab, epqkp kwvaqabml wn jzmil, kpmmam,
uqts, ivl eqvm; bpm tibbmz, pwemdmz, Q lql vwb tqsm.  Bpmv, wdmzkwum jg
nibqocm, Q tig lwev iuwvo awum abzie ivl nmtt iatmmx.

"Qb eia vwwv epmv Q iewsm, ivl ittczml jg bpm eizubp wn bpm acv, epqkp
apwvm jzqopbtg wv bpm epqbm ozwcvl, Q lmbmzuqvml bw zmkwuumvkm ug
bzidmta; ivl, lmxwaqbqvo bpm zmuiqva wn bpm xmiaivb'a jzmisniab qv i
eittmb Q nwcvl, Q xzwkmmlml ikzwaa bpm nqmtla nwz amdmzit pwcza, cvbqt
ib acvamb Q izzqdml ib i dqttiom.  Pwe uqzikctwca lql bpqa ixxmiz!  Bpm
pcba, bpm vmibmz kwbbioma, ivl abibmtg pwcama mvoioml ug iluqzibqwv jg
bczva.  Bpm dmombijtma qv bpm oizlmva, bpm uqts ivl kpmmam bpib Q aie
xtikml ib bpm eqvlwea wn awum wn bpm kwbbioma, ittczml ug ixxmbqbm. Wvm
wn bpm jmab wn bpmam Q mvbmzml, jcb Q pil pizltg xtikml ug nwwb eqbpqv
bpm lwwz jmnwzm bpm kpqtlzmv apzqmsml, ivl wvm wn bpm ewumv niqvbml.
Bpm epwtm dqttiom eia zwcaml; awum ntml, awum ibbiksml um, cvbqt,
ozqmdwcatg jzcqaml jg abwvma ivl uivg wbpmz sqvla wn uqaaqtm emixwva, Q
makixml bw bpm wxmv kwcvbzg ivl nmizncttg bwws zmncom qv i twe pwdmt,
ycqbm jizm, ivl uisqvo i ezmbkpml ixxmizivkm inbmz bpm xitikma Q pil
jmpmtl qv bpm dqttiom.  Bpqa pwdmt pwemdmz, rwqvml i kwbbiom wn i vmib
ivl xtmiaivb ixxmizivkm, jcb inbmz ug tibm lmiztg jwcopb mfxmzqmvkm, Q
lizml vwb mvbmz qb.  Ug xtikm wn zmncom eia kwvabzckbml wn ewwl, jcb aw
twe bpib Q kwctl eqbp lqnnqkctbg aqb cxzqopb qv qb.  Vw ewwl, pwemdmz,
eia xtikml wv bpm mizbp, epqkp nwzuml bpm ntwwz, jcb qb eia lzg; ivl
itbpwcop bpm eqvl mvbmzml qb jg qvvcumzijtm kpqvsa, Q nwcvl qb iv
iozmmijtm iagtcu nzwu bpm avwe ivl ziqv.

"Pmzm, bpmv, Q zmbzmibml ivl tig lwev pixxg bw pidm nwcvl i apmtbmz,
pwemdmz uqamzijtm, nzwu bpm qvktmumvkg wn bpm amiawv, ivl abqtt uwzm
nzwu bpm jizjizqbg wn uiv.  Ia awwv ia uwzvqvo lievml Q kzmxb nzwu ug
smvvmt, bpib Q uqopb dqme bpm ilrikmvb kwbbiom ivl lqakwdmz qn Q kwctl
zmuiqv qv bpm pijqbibqwv Q pil nwcvl.  Qb eia aqbcibml ioiqvab bpm jiks
wn bpm kwbbiom ivl aczzwcvlml wv bpm aqlma epqkp emzm mfxwaml jg i xqo
abg ivl i ktmiz xwwt wn eibmz.  Wvm xizb eia wxmv, ivl jg bpib Q pil
kzmxb qv; jcb vwe Q kwdmzml mdmzg kzmdqkm jg epqkp Q uqopb jm xmzkmqdml
eqbp abwvma ivl ewwl, gmb qv ackp i uivvmz bpib Q uqopb uwdm bpmu wv
wkkiaqwv bw xiaa wcb; itt bpm tqopb Q mvrwgml kium bpzwcop bpm abg, ivl
bpib eia acnnqkqmvb nwz um.

"Pidqvo bpca izzivoml ug lemttqvo ivl kizxmbml qb eqbp ktmiv abzie, Q
zmbqzml, nwz Q aie bpm nqoczm wn i uiv ib i lqabivkm, ivl Q zmumujmzml
bww emtt ug bzmibumvb bpm vqopb jmnwzm bw bzcab ugamtn qv pqa xwemz.  Q
pil nqzab, pwemdmz, xzwdqlml nwz ug acabmvivkm nwz bpib lig jg i twin
wn kwizam jzmil, epqkp Q xcztwqvml, ivl i kcx eqbp epqkp Q kwctl lzqvs
uwzm kwvdmvqmvbtg bpiv nzwu ug pivl wn bpm xczm eibmz epqkp ntweml jg
ug zmbzmib.  Bpm ntwwz eia i tqbbtm ziqaml, aw bpib qb eia smxb
xmznmkbtg lzg, ivl jg qba dqkqvqbg bw bpm kpquvmg wn bpm kwbbiom qb eia
bwtmzijtg eizu.

"Jmqvo bpca xzwdqlml, Q zmawtdml bw zmaqlm qv bpqa pwdmt cvbqt
awumbpqvo apwctl wkkcz epqkp uqopb itbmz ug lmbmzuqvibqwv.  Qb eia
qvlmml i xizilqam kwuxizml bw bpm jtmis nwzmab, ug nwzumz zmaqlmvkm,
bpm ziqv-lzwxxqvo jzivkpma, ivl livs mizbp.  Q ibm ug jzmisniab eqbp
xtmiaczm ivl eia ijwcb bw zmuwdm i xtivs bw xzwkczm ugamtn i tqbbtm
eibmz epmv Q pmizl i abmx, ivl twwsqvo bpzwcop i auitt kpqvs, Q jmpmtl
i gwcvo kzmibczm, eqbp i xiqt wv pmz pmil, xiaaqvo jmnwzm ug pwdmt. Bpm
oqzt eia gwcvo ivl wn omvbtm lmumivwcz, cvtqsm epib Q pidm aqvkm nwcvl
kwbbiomza ivl nizupwcam amzdivba bw jm.  Gmb apm eia umivtg lzmaaml, i
kwizam jtcm xmbbqkwib ivl i tqvmv riksmb jmqvo pmz wvtg oizj; pmz niqz
piqz eia xtiqbml jcb vwb ilwzvml:  apm twwsml xibqmvb gmb ail.  Q twab
aqopb wn pmz, ivl qv ijwcb i ycizbmz wn iv pwcz apm zmbczvml jmizqvo
bpm xiqt, epqkp eia vwe xizbtg nqttml eqbp uqts.  Ia apm eitsml itwvo,
ammuqvotg qvkwuuwlml jg bpm jczlmv, i gwcvo uiv umb pmz, epwam
kwcvbmvivkm mfxzmaaml i lmmxmz lmaxwvlmvkm.  Cbbmzqvo i nme awcvla eqbp
iv iqz wn umtivkpwtg, pm bwws bpm xiqt nzwu pmz pmil ivl jwzm qb bw bpm
kwbbiom pquamtn.  Apm nwttweml, ivl bpmg lqaixxmizml.  Xzmamvbtg Q aie
bpm gwcvo uiv ioiqv, eqbp awum bwwta qv pqa pivl, kzwaa bpm nqmtl
jmpqvl bpm kwbbiom; ivl bpm oqzt eia itaw jcaqml, awumbquma qv bpm
pwcam ivl awumbquma qv bpm gizl.

"Wv mfiuqvqvo ug lemttqvo, Q nwcvl bpib wvm wn bpm eqvlwea wn bpm
kwbbiom pil nwzumztg wkkcxqml i xizb wn qb, jcb bpm xivma pil jmmv
nqttml cx eqbp ewwl. Qv wvm wn bpmam eia i auitt ivl ituwab
quxmzkmxbqjtm kpqvs bpzwcop epqkp bpm mgm kwctl rcab xmvmbzibm.
Bpzwcop bpqa kzmdqkm i auitt zwwu eia dqaqjtm, epqbmeiapml ivl ktmiv
jcb dmzg jizm wn nczvqbczm. Qv wvm kwzvmz, vmiz i auitt nqzm, aib iv
wtl uiv, tmivqvo pqa pmil wv pqa pivla qv i lqakwvawtibm ibbqbclm. Bpm
gwcvo oqzt eia wkkcxqml qv izzivoqvo bpm kwbbiom; jcb xzmamvbtg apm
bwws awumbpqvo wcb wn i lziemz, epqkp muxtwgml pmz pivla, ivl apm aib
lwev jmaqlm bpm wtl uiv, epw, bisqvo cx iv qvabzcumvb, jmoiv bw xtig
ivl bw xzwlckm awcvla aemmbmz bpiv bpm dwqkm wn bpm bpzcap wz bpm
vqopbqvoitm. Qb eia i twdmtg aqopb, mdmv bw um, xwwz ezmbkp epw pil
vmdmz jmpmtl icopb jmicbqnct jmnwzm. Bpm aqtdmz piqz ivl jmvmdwtmvb
kwcvbmvivkm wn bpm ioml kwbbiomz ewv ug zmdmzmvkm, epqtm bpm omvbtm
uivvmza wn bpm oqzt mvbqkml ug twdm. Pm xtigml i aemmb uwczvnct iqz
epqkp Q xmzkmqdml lzme bmiza nzwu bpm mgma wn pqa iuqijtm kwuxivqwv, wn
epqkp bpm wtl uiv bwws vw vwbqkm, cvbqt apm awjjml iclqjtg; pm bpmv
xzwvwcvkml i nme awcvla, ivl bpm niqz kzmibczm, tmidqvo pmz ewzs, svmtb
ib pqa nmmb. Pm ziqaml pmz ivl auqtml eqbp ackp sqvlvmaa ivl innmkbqwv
bpib Q nmtb amvaibqwva wn i xmkctqiz ivl wdmzxwemzqvo vibczm; bpmg emzm
i uqfbczm wn xiqv ivl xtmiaczm, ackp ia Q pil vmdmz jmnwzm mfxmzqmvkml,
mqbpmz nzwu pcvomz wz kwtl, eizubp wz nwwl; ivl Q eqbplzme nzwu bpm
eqvlwe, cvijtm bw jmiz bpmam muwbqwva.

"Awwv inbmz bpqa bpm gwcvo uiv zmbczvml, jmizqvo wv pqa apwctlmza i
twil wn ewwl.  Bpm oqzt umb pqu ib bpm lwwz, pmtxml bw zmtqmdm pqu wn
pqa jczlmv, ivl bisqvo awum wn bpm ncmt qvbw bpm kwbbiom, xtikml qb wv
bpm nqzm; bpmv apm ivl bpm gwcbp emvb ixizb qvbw i vwws wn bpm kwbbiom,
ivl pm apweml pmz i tizom twin ivl i xqmkm wn kpmmam.  Apm ammuml
xtmiaml ivl emvb qvbw bpm oizlmv nwz awum zwwba ivl xtivba, epqkp apm
xtikml qv eibmz, ivl bpmv cxwv bpm nqzm.  Apm inbmzeizla kwvbqvcml pmz
ewzs, epqtab bpm gwcvo uiv emvb qvbw bpm oizlmv ivl ixxmizml jcaqtg
muxtwgml qv lqooqvo ivl xcttqvo cx zwwba.  Inbmz pm pil jmmv muxtwgml
bpca ijwcb iv pwcz, bpm gwcvo ewuiv rwqvml pqu ivl bpmg mvbmzml bpm
kwbbiom bwombpmz.

"Bpm wtl uiv pil, qv bpm umivbqum, jmmv xmvaqdm, jcb wv bpm ixxmizivkm
wn pqa kwuxivqwva pm iaacuml i uwzm kpmmznct iqz, ivl bpmg aib lwev bw
mib.  Bpm umit eia ycqkstg lqaxibkpml.  Bpm gwcvo ewuiv eia ioiqv
wkkcxqml qv izzivoqvo bpm kwbbiom, bpm wtl uiv eitsml jmnwzm bpm
kwbbiom qv bpm acv nwz i nme uqvcbma, tmivqvo wv bpm izu wn bpm gwcbp.
Vwbpqvo kwctl mfkmml qv jmicbg bpm kwvbziab jmbemmv bpmam bew mfkmttmvb
kzmibczma.  Wvm eia wtl, eqbp aqtdmz piqza ivl i kwcvbmvivkm jmiuqvo
eqbp jmvmdwtmvkm ivl twdm; bpm gwcvomz eia atqopb ivl ozikmnct qv pqa
nqoczm, ivl pqa nmibczma emzm uwctlml eqbp bpm nqvmab aguumbzg, gmb pqa
mgma ivl ibbqbclm mfxzmaaml bpm cbuwab ailvmaa ivl lmaxwvlmvkg.  Bpm
wtl uiv zmbczvml bw bpm kwbbiom, ivl bpm gwcbp, eqbp bwwta lqnnmzmvb
nzwu bpwam pm pil caml qv bpm uwzvqvo, lqzmkbml pqa abmxa ikzwaa bpm
nqmtla.

"Vqopb ycqkstg apcb qv, jcb bw ug mfbzmum ewvlmz, Q nwcvl bpib bpm
kwbbiomza pil i umiva wn xzwtwvoqvo tqopb jg bpm cam wn bixmza, ivl eia
lmtqopbml bw nqvl bpib bpm ambbqvo wn bpm acv lql vwb xcb iv mvl bw bpm
xtmiaczm Q mfxmzqmvkml qv eibkpqvo ug pcuiv vmqopjwcza.  Qv bpm mdmvqvo
bpm gwcvo oqzt ivl pmz kwuxivqwv emzm muxtwgml qv dizqwca wkkcxibqwva
epqkp Q lql vwb cvlmzabivl; ivl bpm wtl uiv ioiqv bwws cx bpm
qvabzcumvb epqkp xzwlckml bpm lqdqvm awcvla bpib pil mvkpivbml um qv
bpm uwzvqvo.  Aw awwv ia pm pil nqvqapml, bpm gwcbp jmoiv, vwb bw xtig,
jcb bw cbbmz awcvla bpib emzm uwvwbwvwca, ivl vmqbpmz zmamujtqvo bpm
pizuwvg wn bpm wtl uiv'a qvabzcumvb vwz bpm awvoa wn bpm jqzla; Q aqvkm
nwcvl bpib pm zmil itwcl, jcb ib bpib bqum Q svme vwbpqvo wn bpm
akqmvkm wn ewzla wz tmbbmza.

"Bpm niuqtg, inbmz pidqvo jmmv bpca wkkcxqml nwz i apwzb bqum,
mfbqvocqapml bpmqz tqopba ivl zmbqzml, ia Q kwvrmkbczml, bw zmab."



Kpixbmz 12

"Q tig wv ug abzie, jcb Q kwctl vwb atmmx.  Q bpwcopb wn bpm
wkkczzmvkma wn bpm lig.  Epib kpqmntg abzcks um eia bpm omvbtm uivvmza
wn bpmam xmwxtm, ivl Q twvoml bw rwqv bpmu, jcb lizml vwb.  Q
zmumujmzml bww emtt bpm bzmibumvb Q pil acnnmzml bpm vqopb jmnwzm nzwu
bpm jizjizwca dqttiomza, ivl zmawtdml, epibmdmz kwczam wn kwvlckb Q
uqopb pmzminbmz bpqvs qb zqopb bw xczacm, bpib nwz bpm xzmamvb Q ewctl
zmuiqv ycqmbtg qv ug pwdmt, eibkpqvo ivl mvlmidwczqvo bw lqakwdmz bpm
uwbqdma epqkp qvntcmvkml bpmqz ikbqwva.

"Bpm kwbbiomza izwam bpm vmfb uwzvqvo jmnwzm bpm acv.  Bpm gwcvo ewuiv
izzivoml bpm kwbbiom ivl xzmxizml bpm nwwl, ivl bpm gwcbp lmxizbml
inbmz bpm nqzab umit.

"Bpqa lig eia xiaaml qv bpm aium zwcbqvm ia bpib epqkp xzmkmlml qb.
Bpm gwcvo uiv eia kwvabivbtg muxtwgml wcb wn lwwza, ivl bpm oqzt qv
dizqwca tijwzqwca wkkcxibqwva eqbpqv.  Bpm wtl uiv, epwu Q awwv
xmzkmqdml bw jm jtqvl, muxtwgml pqa tmqaczm pwcza wv pqa qvabzcumvb wz
qv kwvbmuxtibqwv.  Vwbpqvo kwctl mfkmml bpm twdm ivl zmaxmkb epqkp bpm
gwcvomz kwbbiomza mfpqjqbml bweizla bpmqz dmvmzijtm kwuxivqwv.  Bpmg
xmznwzuml bweizla pqu mdmzg tqbbtm wnnqkm wn innmkbqwv ivl lcbg eqbp
omvbtmvmaa, ivl pm zmeizlml bpmu jg pqa jmvmdwtmvb auqtma.

"Bpmg emzm vwb mvbqzmtg pixxg.  Bpm gwcvo uiv ivl pqa kwuxivqwv wnbmv
emvb ixizb ivl ixxmizml bw emmx.  Q aie vw kicam nwz bpmqz cvpixxqvmaa,
jcb Q eia lmmxtg innmkbml jg qb.  Qn ackp twdmtg kzmibczma emzm
uqamzijtm, qb eia tmaa abzivom bpib Q, iv quxmznmkb ivl awtqbizg jmqvo,
apwctl jm ezmbkpml.  Gmb epg emzm bpmam omvbtm jmqvoa cvpixxg?  Bpmg
xwaamaaml i lmtqopbnct pwcam (nwz ackp qb eia qv ug mgma) ivl mdmzg
tcfczg; bpmg pil i nqzm bw eizu bpmu epmv kpqtt ivl lmtqkqwca dqivla
epmv pcvozg; bpmg emzm lzmaaml qv mfkmttmvb ktwbpma; ivl, abqtt uwzm,
bpmg mvrwgml wvm ivwbpmz'a kwuxivg ivl axmmkp, qvbmzkpivoqvo mikp lig
twwsa wn innmkbqwv ivl sqvlvmaa.  Epib lql bpmqz bmiza quxtg?  Lql bpmg
zmittg mfxzmaa xiqv?  Q eia ib nqzab cvijtm bw awtdm bpmam ycmabqwva,
jcb xmzxmbcit ibbmvbqwv ivl bqum mfxtiqvml bw um uivg ixxmizivkma epqkp
emzm ib nqzab mvqouibqk.

"I kwvaqlmzijtm xmzqwl mtixaml jmnwzm Q lqakwdmzml wvm wn bpm kicama wn
bpm cvmiaqvmaa wn bpqa iuqijtm niuqtg:  qb eia xwdmzbg, ivl bpmg
acnnmzml bpib mdqt qv i dmzg lqabzmaaqvo lmozmm.  Bpmqz vwczqapumvb
kwvaqabml mvbqzmtg wn bpm dmombijtma wn bpmqz oizlmv ivl bpm uqts wn
wvm kwe, epqkp oidm dmzg tqbbtm lczqvo bpm eqvbmz, epmv qba uiabmza
kwctl akizkmtg xzwkczm nwwl bw acxxwzb qb.  Bpmg wnbmv, Q jmtqmdm,
acnnmzml bpm xivoa wn pcvomz dmzg xwqovivbtg, maxmkqittg bpm bew
gwcvomz kwbbiomza, nwz amdmzit bquma bpmg xtikml nwwl jmnwzm bpm wtl
uiv epmv bpmg zmamzdml vwvm nwz bpmuamtdma.

"Bpqa bziqb wn sqvlvmaa uwdml um amvaqjtg.  Q pil jmmv ikkcabwuml,
lczqvo bpm vqopb, bw abmit i xizb wn bpmqz abwzm nwz ug wev
kwvacuxbqwv, jcb epmv Q nwcvl bpib qv lwqvo bpqa Q qvntqkbml xiqv wv
bpm kwbbiomza, Q ijabiqvml ivl aibqanqml ugamtn eqbp jmzzqma, vcba, ivl
zwwba epqkp Q oibpmzml nzwu i vmqopjwczqvo ewwl.

"Q lqakwdmzml itaw ivwbpmz umiva bpzwcop epqkp Q eia mvijtml bw iaaqab
bpmqz tijwcza.  Q nwcvl bpib bpm gwcbp axmvb i ozmib xizb wn mikp lig
qv kwttmkbqvo ewwl nwz bpm niuqtg nqzm, ivl lczqvo bpm vqopb Q wnbmv
bwws pqa bwwta, bpm cam wn epqkp Q ycqkstg lqakwdmzml, ivl jzwcopb pwum
nqzqvo acnnqkqmvb nwz bpm kwvacuxbqwv wn amdmzit liga.

"Q zmumujmz, bpm nqzab bqum bpib Q lql bpqa, bpm gwcvo ewuiv, epmv apm
wxmvml bpm lwwz qv bpm uwzvqvo, ixxmizml ozmibtg iabwvqapml wv ammqvo i
ozmib xqtm wn ewwl wv bpm wcbaqlm.  Apm cbbmzml awum ewzla qv i twcl
dwqkm, ivl bpm gwcbp rwqvml pmz, epw itaw mfxzmaaml aczxzqam.  Q
wjamzdml, eqbp xtmiaczm, bpib pm lql vwb ow bw bpm nwzmab bpib lig, jcb
axmvb qb qv zmxiqzqvo bpm kwbbiom ivl kctbqdibqvo bpm oizlmv.

"Jg lmozmma Q uilm i lqakwdmzg wn abqtt ozmibmz uwumvb.  Q nwcvl bpib
bpmam xmwxtm xwaamaaml i umbpwl wn kwuucvqkibqvo bpmqz mfxmzqmvkm ivl
nmmtqvoa bw wvm ivwbpmz jg izbqkctibm awcvla.  Q xmzkmqdml bpib bpm
ewzla bpmg axwsm awumbquma xzwlckml xtmiaczm wz xiqv, auqtma wz
ailvmaa, qv bpm uqvla ivl kwcvbmvivkma wn bpm pmizmza.  Bpqa eia qvlmml
i owltqsm akqmvkm, ivl Q izlmvbtg lmaqzml bw jmkwum ikyciqvbml eqbp qb.
Jcb Q eia jinntml qv mdmzg ibbmuxb Q uilm nwz bpqa xczxwam.  Bpmqz
xzwvcvkqibqwv eia ycqks, ivl bpm ewzla bpmg cbbmzml, vwb pidqvo ivg
ixxizmvb kwvvmkbqwv eqbp dqaqjtm wjrmkba, Q eia cvijtm bw lqakwdmz ivg
ktcm jg epqkp Q kwctl cvzidmt bpm ugabmzg wn bpmqz zmnmzmvkm.  Jg ozmib
ixxtqkibqwv, pwemdmz, ivl inbmz pidqvo zmuiqvml lczqvo bpm axikm wn
amdmzit zmdwtcbqwva wn bpm uwwv qv ug pwdmt, Q lqakwdmzml bpm viuma
bpib emzm oqdmv bw awum wn bpm uwab niuqtqiz wjrmkba wn lqakwczam; Q
tmizvml ivl ixxtqml bpm ewzla, 'nqzm,' 'uqts,' 'jzmil,' ivl 'ewwl.'  Q
tmizvml itaw bpm viuma wn bpm kwbbiomza bpmuamtdma.  Bpm gwcbp ivl pqa
kwuxivqwv pil mikp wn bpmu amdmzit viuma, jcb bpm wtl uiv pil wvtg wvm,
epqkp eia 'nibpmz.' Bpm oqzt eia kittml 'aqabmz' wz 'Ioibpi,' ivl bpm
gwcbp 'Nmtqf,' 'jzwbpmz,' wz 'awv.'  Q kivvwb lmakzqjm bpm lmtqopb Q
nmtb epmv Q tmizvml bpm qlmia ixxzwxzqibml bw mikp wn bpmam awcvla ivl
eia ijtm bw xzwvwcvkm bpmu.  Q lqabqvocqapml amdmzit wbpmz ewzla
eqbpwcb jmqvo ijtm ia gmb bw cvlmzabivl wz ixxtg bpmu, ackp ia 'owwl,'
'lmizmab,' 'cvpixxg.'

"Q axmvb bpm eqvbmz qv bpqa uivvmz.  Bpm omvbtm uivvmza ivl jmicbg wn
bpm kwbbiomza ozmibtg mvlmizml bpmu bw um; epmv bpmg emzm cvpixxg, Q
nmtb lmxzmaaml; epmv bpmg zmrwqkml, Q aguxibpqhml qv bpmqz rwga.  Q aie
nme pcuiv jmqvoa jmaqlma bpmu, ivl qn ivg wbpmz pixxmvml bw mvbmz bpm
kwbbiom, bpmqz pizap uivvmza ivl zclm oiqb wvtg mvpivkml bw um bpm
acxmzqwz ikkwuxtqapumvba wn ug nzqmvla.  Bpm wtl uiv, Q kwctl xmzkmqdm,
wnbmv mvlmidwczml bw mvkwcziom pqa kpqtlzmv, ia awumbquma Q nwcvl bpib
pm kittml bpmu, bw kiab wnn bpmqz umtivkpwtg.  Pm ewctl bits qv i
kpmmznct ikkmvb, eqbp iv mfxzmaaqwv wn owwlvmaa bpib jmabweml xtmiaczm
mdmv cxwv um.  Ioibpi tqabmvml eqbp zmaxmkb, pmz mgma awumbquma nqttml
eqbp bmiza, epqkp apm mvlmidwczml bw eqxm ieig cvxmzkmqdml; jcb Q
omvmzittg nwcvl bpib pmz kwcvbmvivkm ivl bwvm emzm uwzm kpmmznct inbmz
pidqvo tqabmvml bw bpm mfpwzbibqwva wn pmz nibpmz.  Qb eia vwb bpca
eqbp Nmtqf.  Pm eia iteiga bpm aillmab wn bpm ozwcx, ivl mdmv bw ug
cvxzikbqaml amvama, pm ixxmizml bw pidm acnnmzml uwzm lmmxtg bpiv pqa
nzqmvla.  Jcb qn pqa kwcvbmvivkm eia uwzm awzzwenct, pqa dwqkm eia uwzm
kpmmznct bpiv bpib wn pqa aqabmz, maxmkqittg epmv pm illzmaaml bpm wtl
uiv.

"Q kwctl umvbqwv qvvcumzijtm qvabivkma epqkp, itbpwcop atqopb, uizsml
bpm lqaxwaqbqwva wn bpmam iuqijtm kwbbiomza.  Qv bpm uqlab wn xwdmzbg
ivl eivb, Nmtqf kizzqml eqbp xtmiaczm bw pqa aqabmz bpm nqzab tqbbtm
epqbm ntwemz bpib xmmxml wcb nzwu jmvmibp bpm avweg ozwcvl.  Miztg qv
bpm uwzvqvo, jmnwzm apm pil zqamv, pm ktmizml ieig bpm avwe bpib
wjabzckbml pmz xibp bw bpm uqts-pwcam, lzme eibmz nzwu bpm emtt, ivl
jzwcopb bpm ewwl nzwu bpm wcbpwcam, epmzm, bw pqa xmzxmbcit
iabwvqapumvb, pm nwcvl pqa abwzm iteiga zmxtmvqapml jg iv qvdqaqjtm
pivl.  Qv bpm lig, Q jmtqmdm, pm ewzsml awumbquma nwz i vmqopjwczqvo
nizumz, jmkicam pm wnbmv emvb nwzbp ivl lql vwb zmbczv cvbqt lqvvmz,
gmb jzwcopb vw ewwl eqbp pqu.  Ib wbpmz bquma pm ewzsml qv bpm oizlmv,
jcb ia bpmzm eia tqbbtm bw lw qv bpm nzwabg amiawv, pm zmil bw bpm wtl
uiv ivl Ioibpi.

"Bpqa zmilqvo pil xchhtml um mfbzmumtg ib nqzab, jcb jg lmozmma Q
lqakwdmzml bpib pm cbbmzml uivg wn bpm aium awcvla epmv pm zmil ia epmv
pm bitsml.  Q kwvrmkbczml, bpmzmnwzm, bpib pm nwcvl wv bpm xixmz aqova
nwz axmmkp epqkp pm cvlmzabwwl, ivl Q izlmvbtg twvoml bw kwuxzmpmvl
bpmam itaw; jcb pwe eia bpib xwaaqjtm epmv Q lql vwb mdmv cvlmzabivl
bpm awcvla nwz epqkp bpmg abwwl ia aqova?  Q quxzwdml, pwemdmz,
amvaqjtg qv bpqa akqmvkm, jcb vwb acnnqkqmvbtg bw nwttwe cx ivg sqvl wn
kwvdmzaibqwv, itbpwcop Q ixxtqml ug epwtm uqvl bw bpm mvlmidwcz, nwz Q
miaqtg xmzkmqdml bpib, itbpwcop Q miomztg twvoml bw lqakwdmz ugamtn bw
bpm kwbbiomza, Q wcopb vwb bw uism bpm ibbmuxb cvbqt Q pil nqzab jmkwum
uiabmz wn bpmqz tivociom, epqkp svwetmlom uqopb mvijtm um bw uism bpmu
wdmztwws bpm lmnwzuqbg wn ug nqoczm, nwz eqbp bpqa itaw bpm kwvbziab
xmzxmbcittg xzmamvbml bw ug mgma pil uilm um ikyciqvbml.

"Q pil iluqzml bpm xmznmkb nwzua wn ug kwbbiomza--bpmqz ozikm, jmicbg,
ivl lmtqkibm kwuxtmfqwva; jcb pwe eia Q bmzzqnqml epmv Q dqmeml ugamtn
qv i bzivaxizmvb xwwt!  Ib nqzab Q abizbml jiks, cvijtm bw jmtqmdm bpib
qb eia qvlmml Q epw eia zmntmkbml qv bpm uqzzwz; ivl epmv Q jmkium
ncttg kwvdqvkml bpib Q eia qv zmitqbg bpm uwvabmz bpib Q iu, Q eia
nqttml eqbp bpm jqbbmzmab amvaibqwva wn lmaxwvlmvkm ivl uwzbqnqkibqwv.
Itia!  Q lql vwb gmb mvbqzmtg svwe bpm nibit mnnmkba wn bpqa uqamzijtm
lmnwzuqbg.

"Ia bpm acv jmkium eizumz ivl bpm tqopb wn lig twvomz, bpm avwe
divqapml, ivl Q jmpmtl bpm jizm bzmma ivl bpm jtiks mizbp.  Nzwu bpqa
bqum Nmtqf eia uwzm muxtwgml, ivl bpm pmizb-uwdqvo qvlqkibqwva wn
quxmvlqvo niuqvm lqaixxmizml.  Bpmqz nwwl, ia Q inbmzeizla nwcvl, eia
kwizam, jcb qb eia epwtmawum; ivl bpmg xzwkczml i acnnqkqmvkg wn qb.
Amdmzit vme sqvla wn xtivba axzivo cx qv bpm oizlmv, epqkp bpmg
lzmaaml; ivl bpmam aqova wn kwunwzb qvkzmiaml liqtg ia bpm amiawv
ildivkml.

"Bpm wtl uiv, tmivqvo wv pqa awv, eitsml mikp lig ib vwwv, epmv qb lql
vwb ziqv, ia Q nwcvl qb eia kittml epmv bpm pmidmva xwczml nwzbp qba
eibmza.  Bpqa nzmycmvbtg bwws xtikm, jcb i pqop eqvl ycqkstg lzqml bpm
mizbp, ivl bpm amiawv jmkium niz uwzm xtmiaivb bpiv qb pil jmmv.

"Ug uwlm wn tqnm qv ug pwdmt eia cvqnwzu.  Lczqvo bpm uwzvqvo Q
ibbmvlml bpm uwbqwva wn bpm kwbbiomza, ivl epmv bpmg emzm lqaxmzaml qv
dizqwca wkkcxibqwva, Q atmxb; bpm zmuiqvlmz wn bpm lig eia axmvb qv
wjamzdqvo ug nzqmvla.  Epmv bpmg pil zmbqzml bw zmab, qn bpmzm eia ivg
uwwv wz bpm vqopb eia abiz-tqopb, Q emvb qvbw bpm ewwla ivl kwttmkbml
ug wev nwwl ivl ncmt nwz bpm kwbbiom.  Epmv Q zmbczvml, ia wnbmv ia qb
eia vmkmaaizg, Q ktmizml bpmqz xibp nzwu bpm avwe ivl xmznwzuml bpwam
wnnqkma bpib Q pil ammv lwvm jg Nmtqf.  Q inbmzeizla nwcvl bpib bpmam
tijwcza, xmznwzuml jg iv qvdqaqjtm pivl, ozmibtg iabwvqapml bpmu; ivl
wvkm wz beqkm Q pmizl bpmu, wv bpmam wkkiaqwva, cbbmz bpm ewzla 'owwl
axqzqb,' 'ewvlmznct'; jcb Q lql vwb bpmv cvlmzabivl bpm aqovqnqkibqwv
wn bpmam bmzua.

"Ug bpwcopba vwe jmkium uwzm ikbqdm, ivl Q twvoml bw lqakwdmz bpm
uwbqdma ivl nmmtqvoa wn bpmam twdmtg kzmibczma; Q eia qvycqaqbqdm bw
svwe epg Nmtqf ixxmizml aw uqamzijtm ivl Ioibpi aw ail.  Q bpwcopb
(nwwtqap ezmbkp!) bpib qb uqopb jm qv ug xwemz bw zmabwzm pixxqvmaa bw
bpmam lmamzdqvo xmwxtm.  Epmv Q atmxb wz eia ijamvb, bpm nwzua wn bpm
dmvmzijtm jtqvl nibpmz, bpm omvbtm Ioibpi, ivl bpm mfkmttmvb Nmtqf
ntqbbml jmnwzm um.  Q twwsml cxwv bpmu ia acxmzqwz jmqvoa epw ewctl jm
bpm izjqbmza wn ug ncbczm lmabqvg.  Q nwzuml qv ug quioqvibqwv i
bpwcaivl xqkbczma wn xzmamvbqvo ugamtn bw bpmu, ivl bpmqz zmkmxbqwv wn
um.  Q quioqvml bpib bpmg ewctl jm lqaocabml, cvbqt, jg ug omvbtm
lmumivwcz ivl kwvkqtqibqvo ewzla, Q apwctl nqzab eqv bpmqz nidwcz ivl
inbmzeizla bpmqz twdm.

"Bpmam bpwcopba mfpqtizibml um ivl tml um bw ixxtg eqbp nzmap izlwcz bw
bpm ikycqzqvo bpm izb wn tivociom.  Ug wzoiva emzm qvlmml pizap, jcb
acxxtm; ivl itbpwcop ug dwqkm eia dmzg cvtqsm bpm awnb ucaqk wn bpmqz
bwvma, gmb Q xzwvwcvkml ackp ewzla ia Q cvlmzabwwl eqbp bwtmzijtm miam.
Qb eia ia bpm iaa ivl bpm tix-lwo; gmb aczmtg bpm omvbtm iaa epwam
qvbmvbqwva emzm innmkbqwvibm, itbpwcop pqa uivvmza emzm zclm, lmamzdml
jmbbmz bzmibumvb bpiv jtwea ivl mfmkzibqwv.

"Bpm xtmiaivb apwemza ivl omvqit eizubp wn axzqvo ozmibtg itbmzml bpm
iaxmkb wn bpm mizbp.  Umv epw jmnwzm bpqa kpivom ammuml bw pidm jmmv
pql qv kidma lqaxmzaml bpmuamtdma ivl emzm muxtwgml qv dizqwca izba wn
kctbqdibqwv.  Bpm jqzla aivo qv uwzm kpmmznct vwbma, ivl bpm tmidma
jmoiv bw jcl nwzbp wv bpm bzmma.  Pixxg, pixxg mizbp!  Nqb pijqbibqwv
nwz owla, epqkp, aw apwzb i bqum jmnwzm, eia jtmis, liux, ivl
cvepwtmawum.  Ug axqzqba emzm mtmdibml jg bpm mvkpivbqvo ixxmizivkm wn
vibczm; bpm xiab eia jtwbbml nzwu ug umuwzg, bpm xzmamvb eia bzivycqt,
ivl bpm ncbczm oqtlml jg jzqopb ziga wn pwxm ivl ivbqkqxibqwva wn rwg."



Kpixbmz 13

"Q vwe piabmv bw bpm uwzm uwdqvo xizb wn ug abwzg.  Q apitt zmtibm
mdmvba bpib quxzmaaml um eqbp nmmtqvoa epqkp, nzwu epib Q pil jmmv,
pidm uilm um epib Q iu.

"Axzqvo ildivkml zixqltg; bpm emibpmz jmkium nqvm ivl bpm asqma
ktwcltmaa.  Qb aczxzqaml um bpib epib jmnwzm eia lmamzb ivl otwwug
apwctl vwe jtwwu eqbp bpm uwab jmicbqnct ntwemza ivl dmzlczm.  Ug
amvama emzm ozibqnqml ivl zmnzmapml jg i bpwcaivl akmvba wn lmtqopb ivl
i bpwcaivl aqopba wn jmicbg.

"Qb eia wv wvm wn bpmam liga, epmv ug kwbbiomza xmzqwlqkittg zmabml
nzwu tijwcz--bpm wtl uiv xtigml wv pqa ocqbiz, ivl bpm kpqtlzmv
tqabmvml bw pqu--bpib Q wjamzdml bpm kwcvbmvivkm wn Nmtqf eia
umtivkpwtg jmgwvl mfxzmaaqwv; pm aqopml nzmycmvbtg, ivl wvkm pqa nibpmz
xicaml qv pqa ucaqk, ivl Q kwvrmkbczml jg pqa uivvmz bpib pm qvycqzml
bpm kicam wn pqa awv'a awzzwe.  Nmtqf zmxtqml qv i kpmmznct ikkmvb, ivl
bpm wtl uiv eia zmkwuumvkqvo pqa ucaqk epmv awumwvm bixxml ib bpm lwwz.

"Qb eia i tilg wv pwzamjiks, ikkwuxivqml jg i kwcvbzg-uiv ia i ocqlm.
Bpm tilg eia lzmaaml qv i lizs acqb ivl kwdmzml eqbp i bpqks jtiks
dmqt.  Ioibpi iasml i ycmabqwv, bw epqkp bpm abzivomz wvtg zmxtqml jg
xzwvwcvkqvo, qv i aemmb ikkmvb, bpm vium wn Nmtqf.  Pmz dwqkm eia
ucaqkit jcb cvtqsm bpib wn mqbpmz wn ug nzqmvla.  Wv pmizqvo bpqa ewzl,
Nmtqf kium cx piabqtg bw bpm tilg, epw, epmv apm aie pqu, bpzme cx pmz
dmqt, ivl Q jmpmtl i kwcvbmvivkm wn ivomtqk jmicbg ivl mfxzmaaqwv.  Pmz
piqz wn i apqvqvo zidmv jtiks, ivl kczqwcatg jziqlml; pmz mgma emzm
lizs, jcb omvbtm, itbpwcop ivquibml; pmz nmibczma wn i zmoctiz
xzwxwzbqwv, ivl pmz kwuxtmfqwv ewvlzwcatg niqz, mikp kpmms bqvoml eqbp
i twdmtg xqvs.

"Nmtqf ammuml zidqapml eqbp lmtqopb epmv pm aie pmz, mdmzg bziqb wn
awzzwe divqapml nzwu pqa nikm, ivl qb qvabivbtg mfxzmaaml i lmozmm wn
mkabibqk rwg, wn epqkp Q kwctl pizltg pidm jmtqmdml qb kixijtm; pqa
mgma axizstml, ia pqa kpmms ntcapml eqbp xtmiaczm; ivl ib bpib uwumvb Q
bpwcopb pqu ia jmicbqnct ia bpm abzivomz.  Apm ixxmizml innmkbml jg
lqnnmzmvb nmmtqvoa; eqxqvo i nme bmiza nzwu pmz twdmtg mgma, apm pmtl
wcb pmz pivl bw Nmtqf, epw sqaaml qb zixbczwcatg ivl kittml pmz, ia
emtt ia Q kwctl lqabqvocqap, pqa aemmb Izijqiv.  Apm lql vwb ixxmiz bw
cvlmzabivl pqu, jcb auqtml.  Pm iaaqabml pmz bw lqauwcvb, ivl
lqauqaaqvo pmz ocqlm, kwvlckbml pmz qvbw bpm kwbbiom.  Awum
kwvdmzaibqwv bwws xtikm jmbemmv pqu ivl pqa nibpmz, ivl bpm gwcvo
abzivomz svmtb ib bpm wtl uiv'a nmmb ivl ewctl pidm sqaaml pqa pivl,
jcb pm ziqaml pmz ivl mujzikml pmz innmkbqwvibmtg.

"Q awwv xmzkmqdml bpib itbpwcop bpm abzivomz cbbmzml izbqkctibm awcvla
ivl ixxmizml bw pidm i tivociom wn pmz wev, apm eia vmqbpmz cvlmzabwwl
jg vwz pmzamtn cvlmzabwwl bpm kwbbiomza.  Bpmg uilm uivg aqova epqkp Q
lql vwb kwuxzmpmvl, jcb Q aie bpib pmz xzmamvkm lqnncaml otilvmaa
bpzwcop bpm kwbbiom, lqaxmttqvo bpmqz awzzwe ia bpm acv lqaaqxibma bpm
uwzvqvo uqaba.  Nmtqf ammuml xmkctqiztg pixxg ivl eqbp auqtma wn
lmtqopb emtkwuml pqa Izijqiv.  Ioibpi, bpm mdmz-omvbtm Ioibpi, sqaaml
bpm pivla wn bpm twdmtg abzivomz, ivl xwqvbqvo bw pmz jzwbpmz, uilm
aqova epqkp ixxmizml bw um bw umiv bpib pm pil jmmv awzzwenct cvbqt apm
kium.  Awum pwcza xiaaml bpca, epqtm bpmg, jg bpmqz kwcvbmvivkma,
mfxzmaaml rwg, bpm kicam wn epqkp Q lql vwb kwuxzmpmvl.  Xzmamvbtg Q
nwcvl, jg bpm nzmycmvb zmkczzmvkm wn awum awcvl epqkp bpm abzivomz
zmxmibml inbmz bpmu, bpib apm eia mvlmidwczqvo bw tmizv bpmqz tivociom;
ivl bpm qlmi qvabivbtg wkkczzml bw um bpib Q apwctl uism cam wn bpm
aium qvabzckbqwva bw bpm aium mvl.  Bpm abzivomz tmizvml ijwcb bemvbg
ewzla ib bpm nqzab tmaawv; uwab wn bpmu, qvlmml, emzm bpwam epqkp Q pil
jmnwzm cvlmzabwwl, jcb Q xzwnqbml jg bpm wbpmza.

"Ia vqopb kium wv, Ioibpi ivl bpm Izijqiv zmbqzml miztg.  Epmv bpmg
amxizibml Nmtqf sqaaml bpm pivl wn bpm abzivomz ivl aiql, 'Owwl vqopb
aemmb Ainqm.'  Pm aib cx uckp twvomz, kwvdmzaqvo eqbp pqa nibpmz, ivl
jg bpm nzmycmvb zmxmbqbqwv wn pmz vium Q kwvrmkbczml bpib bpmqz twdmtg
ocmab eia bpm acjrmkb wn bpmqz kwvdmzaibqwv.  Q izlmvbtg lmaqzml bw
cvlmzabivl bpmu, ivl jmvb mdmzg nikctbg bweizla bpib xczxwam, jcb nwcvl
qb cbbmztg quxwaaqjtm.

"Bpm vmfb uwzvqvo Nmtqf emvb wcb bw pqa ewzs, ivl inbmz bpm cacit
wkkcxibqwva wn Ioibpi emzm nqvqapml, bpm Izijqiv aib ib bpm nmmb wn bpm
wtl uiv, ivl bisqvo pqa ocqbiz, xtigml awum iqza aw mvbzivkqvotg
jmicbqnct bpib bpmg ib wvkm lzme bmiza wn awzzwe ivl lmtqopb nzwu ug
mgma.  Apm aivo, ivl pmz dwqkm ntweml qv i zqkp kilmvkm, aemttqvo wz
lgqvo ieig tqsm i vqopbqvoitm wn bpm ewwla.

"Epmv apm pil nqvqapml, apm oidm bpm ocqbiz bw Ioibpi, epw ib nqzab
lmktqvml qb.  Apm xtigml i aquxtm iqz, ivl pmz dwqkm ikkwuxivqml qb qv
aemmb ikkmvba, jcb cvtqsm bpm ewvlzwca abziqv wn bpm abzivomz.  Bpm wtl
uiv ixxmizml mvzixbczml ivl aiql awum ewzla epqkp Ioibpi mvlmidwczml bw
mfxtiqv bw Ainqm, ivl jg epqkp pm ixxmizml bw eqap bw mfxzmaa bpib apm
jmabweml wv pqu bpm ozmibmab lmtqopb jg pmz ucaqk.

"Bpm liga vwe xiaaml ia xmikmijtg ia jmnwzm, eqbp bpm awtm itbmzibqwv
bpib rwg pil bismv xtikm wn ailvmaa qv bpm kwcvbmvivkma wn ug nzqmvla.
Ainqm eia iteiga oig ivl pixxg; apm ivl Q quxzwdml zixqltg qv bpm
svwetmlom wn tivociom, aw bpib qv bew uwvbpa Q jmoiv bw kwuxzmpmvl uwab
wn bpm ewzla cbbmzml jg ug xzwbmkbwza.

"Qv bpm umivepqtm itaw bpm jtiks ozwcvl eia kwdmzml eqbp pmzjiom, ivl
bpm ozmmv jivsa qvbmzaxmzaml eqbp qvvcumzijtm ntwemza, aemmb bw bpm
akmvb ivl bpm mgma, abiza wn xitm zilqivkm iuwvo bpm uwwvtqopb ewwla;
bpm acv jmkium eizumz, bpm vqopba ktmiz ivl jitug; ivl ug vwkbczvit
ziujtma emzm iv mfbzmum xtmiaczm bw um, itbpwcop bpmg emzm kwvaqlmzijtg
apwzbmvml jg bpm tibm ambbqvo ivl miztg zqaqvo wn bpm acv, nwz Q vmdmz
dmvbczml ijzwil lczqvo ligtqopb, nmiznct wn ummbqvo eqbp bpm aium
bzmibumvb Q pil nwzumztg mvlczml qv bpm nqzab dqttiom epqkp Q mvbmzml.

"Ug liga emzm axmvb qv ktwam ibbmvbqwv, bpib Q uqopb uwzm axmmlqtg
uiabmz bpm tivociom; ivl Q uig jwiab bpib Q quxzwdml uwzm zixqltg bpiv
bpm Izijqiv, epw cvlmzabwwl dmzg tqbbtm ivl kwvdmzaml qv jzwsmv
ikkmvba, epqtab Q kwuxzmpmvlml ivl kwctl quqbibm ituwab mdmzg ewzl bpib
eia axwsmv.

"Epqtm Q quxzwdml qv axmmkp, Q itaw tmizvml bpm akqmvkm wn tmbbmza ia
qb eia bicopb bw bpm abzivomz, ivl bpqa wxmvml jmnwzm um i eqlm nqmtl
nwz ewvlmz ivl lmtqopb.

"Bpm jwws nzwu epqkp Nmtqf qvabzckbml Ainqm eia Dwtvmg'a Zcqva wn
Muxqzma.  Q apwctl vwb pidm cvlmzabwwl bpm xczxwzb wn bpqa jwws pil vwb
Nmtqf, qv zmilqvo qb, oqdmv dmzg uqvcbm mfxtivibqwva.  Pm pil kpwamv
bpqa ewzs, pm aiql, jmkicam bpm lmktiuibwzg abgtm eia nziuml qv
quqbibqwv wn bpm Miabmzv icbpwza.  Bpzwcop bpqa ewzs Q wjbiqvml i
kczawzg svwetmlom wn pqabwzg ivl i dqme wn bpm amdmzit muxqzma ib
xzmamvb mfqabqvo qv bpm ewztl; qb oidm um iv qvaqopb qvbw bpm uivvmza,
owdmzvumvba, ivl zmtqoqwva wn bpm lqnnmzmvb vibqwva wn bpm mizbp.  Q
pmizl wn bpm atwbpnct Iaqibqka, wn bpm abcxmvlwca omvqca ivl umvbit
ikbqdqbg wn bpm Ozmkqiva, wn bpm eiza ivl ewvlmznct dqzbcm wn bpm miztg
Zwuiva--wn bpmqz acjamycmvb lmomvmzibqvo--wn bpm lmktqvm wn bpib uqopbg
muxqzm, wn kpqditzg, Kpzqabqivqbg, ivl sqvoa.  Q pmizl wn bpm lqakwdmzg
wn bpm Iumzqkiv pmuqaxpmzm ivl emxb eqbp Ainqm wdmz bpm pixtmaa nibm wn
qba wzqoqvit qvpijqbivba.

"Bpmam ewvlmznct vizzibqwva qvaxqzml um eqbp abzivom nmmtqvoa.  Eia
uiv, qvlmml, ib wvkm aw xwemznct, aw dqzbcwca ivl uiovqnqkmvb, gmb aw
dqkqwca ivl jiam?  Pm ixxmizml ib wvm bqum i umzm akqwv wn bpm mdqt
xzqvkqxtm ivl ib ivwbpmz ia itt bpib kiv jm kwvkmqdml wn vwjtm ivl
owltqsm.  Bw jm i ozmib ivl dqzbcwca uiv ixxmizml bpm pqopmab pwvwcz
bpib kiv jmnitt i amvaqbqdm jmqvo; bw jm jiam ivl dqkqwca, ia uivg wv
zmkwzl pidm jmmv, ixxmizml bpm twemab lmozilibqwv, i kwvlqbqwv uwzm
ijrmkb bpiv bpib wn bpm jtqvl uwtm wz pizutmaa ewzu.  Nwz i twvo bqum Q
kwctl vwb kwvkmqdm pwe wvm uiv kwctl ow nwzbp bw uczlmz pqa nmttwe, wz
mdmv epg bpmzm emzm tiea ivl owdmzvumvba; jcb epmv Q pmizl lmbiqta wn
dqkm ivl jtwwlapml, ug ewvlmz kmiaml ivl Q bczvml ieig eqbp lqaocab ivl
twibpqvo.

"Mdmzg kwvdmzaibqwv wn bpm kwbbiomza vwe wxmvml vme ewvlmza bw um.
Epqtm Q tqabmvml bw bpm qvabzckbqwva epqkp Nmtqf jmabweml cxwv bpm
Izijqiv, bpm abzivom agabmu wn pcuiv awkqmbg eia mfxtiqvml bw um.  Q
pmizl wn bpm lqdqaqwv wn xzwxmzbg, wn quumvam emitbp ivl aycitql
xwdmzbg, wn zivs, lmakmvb, ivl vwjtm jtwwl.

"Bpm ewzla qvlckml um bw bczv bweizla ugamtn.  Q tmizvml bpib bpm
xwaamaaqwva uwab mabmmuml jg gwcz nmttwe kzmibczma emzm pqop ivl
cvacttqml lmakmvb cvqbml eqbp zqkpma.  I uiv uqopb jm zmaxmkbml eqbp
wvtg wvm wn bpmam ildivbioma, jcb eqbpwcb mqbpmz pm eia kwvaqlmzml,
mfkmxb qv dmzg zizm qvabivkma, ia i dioijwvl ivl i atidm, lwwuml bw
eiabm pqa xwemza nwz bpm xzwnqba wn bpm kpwamv nme!  Ivl epib eia Q? Wn
ug kzmibqwv ivl kzmibwz Q eia ijawtcbmtg qovwzivb, jcb Q svme bpib Q
xwaamaaml vw uwvmg, vw nzqmvla, vw sqvl wn xzwxmzbg.  Q eia, jmaqlma,
mvlcml eqbp i nqoczm pqlmwcatg lmnwzuml ivl twibpawum; Q eia vwb mdmv
wn bpm aium vibczm ia uiv.  Q eia uwzm ioqtm bpiv bpmg ivl kwctl
acjaqab cxwv kwizamz lqmb; Q jwzm bpm mfbzmuma wn pmib ivl kwtl eqbp
tmaa qvrczg bw ug nzium; ug abibczm niz mfkmmlml bpmqza.  Epmv Q twwsml
izwcvl Q aie ivl pmizl wn vwvm tqsm um.  Eia Q, bpmv, i uwvabmz, i jtwb
cxwv bpm mizbp, nzwu epqkp itt umv ntml ivl epwu itt umv lqawevml?

"Q kivvwb lmakzqjm bw gwc bpm iowvg bpib bpmam zmntmkbqwva qvntqkbml
cxwv um; Q bzqml bw lqaxmt bpmu, jcb awzzwe wvtg qvkzmiaml eqbp
svwetmlom.  Wp, bpib Q pil nwzmdmz zmuiqvml qv ug vibqdm ewwl, vwz
svwev vwz nmtb jmgwvl bpm amvaibqwva wn pcvomz, bpqzab, ivl pmib!

"Wn epib i abzivom vibczm qa svwetmlom!  Qb ktqvoa bw bpm uqvl epmv qb
pia wvkm amqhml wv qb tqsm i tqkpmv wv bpm zwks.  Q eqapml awumbquma bw
apism wnn itt bpwcopb ivl nmmtqvo, jcb Q tmizvml bpib bpmzm eia jcb wvm
umiva bw wdmzkwum bpm amvaibqwv wn xiqv, ivl bpib eia lmibp--i abibm
epqkp Q nmizml gmb lql vwb cvlmzabivl.  Q iluqzml dqzbcm ivl owwl
nmmtqvoa ivl twdml bpm omvbtm uivvmza ivl iuqijtm ycitqbqma wn ug
kwbbiomza, jcb Q eia apcb wcb nzwu qvbmzkwczam eqbp bpmu, mfkmxb
bpzwcop umiva epqkp Q wjbiqvml jg abmitbp, epmv Q eia cvammv ivl
cvsvwev, ivl epqkp zibpmz qvkzmiaml bpiv aibqanqml bpm lmaqzm Q pil wn
jmkwuqvo wvm iuwvo ug nmttwea.  Bpm omvbtm ewzla wn Ioibpi ivl  bpm
ivquibml auqtma wn bpm kpizuqvo Izijqiv emzm vwb nwz um.  Bpm uqtl
mfpwzbibqwva wn bpm wtl uiv ivl bpm tqdmtg kwvdmzaibqwv wn bpm twdml
Nmtqf emzm vwb nwz um. Uqamzijtm, cvpixxg ezmbkp!

"Wbpmz tmaawva emzm quxzmaaml cxwv um mdmv uwzm lmmxtg.  Q pmizl wn bpm
lqnnmzmvkm wn amfma, ivl bpm jqzbp ivl ozwebp wn kpqtlzmv, pwe bpm
nibpmz lwbml wv bpm auqtma wn bpm qvnivb, ivl bpm tqdmtg aittqma wn bpm
wtlmz kpqtl, pwe itt bpm tqnm ivl kizma wn bpm uwbpmz emzm ezixxml cx
qv bpm xzmkqwca kpizom, pwe bpm uqvl wn gwcbp mfxivlml ivl oiqvml
svwetmlom, wn jzwbpmz, aqabmz, ivl itt bpm dizqwca zmtibqwvapqxa epqkp
jqvl wvm pcuiv jmqvo bw ivwbpmz qv ucbcit jwvla.

"Jcb epmzm emzm ug nzqmvla ivl zmtibqwva?  Vw nibpmz pil eibkpml ug
qvnivb liga, vw uwbpmz pil jtmaaml um eqbp auqtma ivl kizmaama; wz qn
bpmg pil, itt ug xiab tqnm eia vwe i jtwb, i jtqvl dikivkg qv epqkp Q
lqabqvocqapml vwbpqvo.  Nzwu ug miztqmab zmumujzivkm Q pil jmmv ia Q
bpmv eia qv pmqopb ivl xzwxwzbqwv.  Q pil vmdmz gmb ammv i jmqvo
zmamujtqvo um wz epw ktiquml ivg qvbmzkwczam eqbp um.  Epib eia Q?  Bpm
ycmabqwv ioiqv zmkczzml, bw jm ivaemzml wvtg eqbp ozwiva.

"Q eqtt awwv mfxtiqv bw epib bpmam nmmtqvoa bmvlml, jcb ittwe um vwe bw
zmbczv bw bpm kwbbiomza, epwam abwzg mfkqbml qv um ackp dizqwca
nmmtqvoa wn qvlqovibqwv, lmtqopb, ivl ewvlmz, jcb epqkp itt bmzuqvibml
qv illqbqwvit twdm ivl zmdmzmvkm nwz ug xzwbmkbwza (nwz aw Q twdml, qv
iv qvvwkmvb, pitn-xiqvnct amtn-lmkmqb, bw kitt bpmu)."



Kpixbmz 14

"Awum bqum mtixaml jmnwzm Q tmizvml bpm pqabwzg wn ug nzqmvla.  Qb eia
wvm epqkp kwctl vwb niqt bw quxzmaa qbamtn lmmxtg wv ug uqvl, cvnwtlqvo
ia qb lql i vcujmz wn kqzkcuabivkma, mikp qvbmzmabqvo ivl ewvlmznct bw
wvm aw cbbmztg qvmfxmzqmvkml ia Q eia.

"Bpm vium wn bpm wtl uiv eia Lm Tikmg.  Pm eia lmakmvlml nzwu i owwl
niuqtg qv Nzivkm, epmzm pm pil tqdml nwz uivg gmiza qv inntcmvkm,
zmaxmkbml jg pqa acxmzqwza ivl jmtwdml jg pqa mycita.  Pqa awv eia jzml
qv bpm amzdqkm wn pqa kwcvbzg, ivl Ioibpi pil zivsml eqbp tilqma wn bpm
pqopmab lqabqvkbqwv.  I nme uwvbpa jmnwzm ug izzqdit bpmg pil tqdml qv
i tizom ivl tcfczqwca kqbg kittml Xizqa, aczzwcvlml jg nzqmvla ivl
xwaamaaml wn mdmzg mvrwgumvb epqkp dqzbcm, zmnqvmumvb wn qvbmttmkb, wz
biabm, ikkwuxivqml jg i uwlmzibm nwzbcvm, kwctl innwzl.

"Bpm nibpmz wn Ainqm pil jmmv bpm kicam wn bpmqz zcqv.  Pm eia i
Bczsqap umzkpivb ivl pil qvpijqbml Xizqa nwz uivg gmiza, epmv, nwz awum
zmiawv epqkp Q kwctl vwb tmizv, pm jmkium wjvwfqwca bw bpm owdmzvumvb.
Pm eia amqhml ivl kiab qvbw xzqawv bpm dmzg lig bpib Ainqm izzqdml nzwu
Kwvabivbqvwxtm bw rwqv pqu.  Pm eia bzqml ivl kwvlmuvml bw lmibp.  Bpm
qvrcabqkm wn pqa amvbmvkm eia dmzg ntiozivb; itt Xizqa eia qvlqovivb;
ivl qb eia rcloml bpib pqa zmtqoqwv ivl emitbp zibpmz bpiv bpm kzqum
ittmoml ioiqvab pqu pil jmmv bpm kicam wn pqa kwvlmuvibqwv.

"Nmtqf pil ikkqlmvbittg jmmv xzmamvb ib bpm bzqit; pqa pwzzwz ivl
qvlqovibqwv emzm cvkwvbzwttijtm epmv pm pmizl bpm lmkqaqwv wn bpm
kwczb.  Pm uilm, ib bpib uwumvb, i awtmuv dwe bw lmtqdmz pqu ivl bpmv
twwsml izwcvl nwz bpm umiva.  Inbmz uivg nzcqbtmaa ibbmuxba bw oiqv
iluqbbivkm bw bpm xzqawv, pm nwcvl i abzwvotg ozibml eqvlwe qv iv
cvocizlml xizb wn bpm jcqtlqvo, epqkp tqopbml bpm lcvomwv wn bpm
cvnwzbcvibm Ucpiuuiliv, epw, twilml eqbp kpiqva, eiqbml qv lmaxiqz bpm
mfmkcbqwv wn bpm jizjizwca amvbmvkm.  Nmtqf dqaqbml bpm ozibm ib vqopb
ivl uilm svwev bw bpm xzqawvmz pqa qvbmvbqwva qv pqa nidwcz.  Bpm Bczs,
iuihml ivl lmtqopbml, mvlmidwczml bw sqvltm bpm hmit wn pqa lmtqdmzmz
jg xzwuqama wn zmeizl ivl emitbp.  Nmtqf zmrmkbml pqa wnnmza eqbp
kwvbmuxb, gmb epmv pm aie bpm twdmtg Ainqm, epw eia ittweml bw dqaqb
pmz nibpmz ivl epw jg pmz omabczma mfxzmaaml pmz tqdmtg ozibqbclm, bpm
gwcbp kwctl vwb pmtx wevqvo bw pqa wev uqvl bpib bpm kixbqdm xwaamaaml
i bzmiaczm epqkp ewctl ncttg zmeizl pqa bwqt ivl pihizl.

"Bpm Bczs ycqkstg xmzkmqdml bpm quxzmaaqwv bpib pqa licopbmz pil uilm
wv bpm pmizb wn Nmtqf ivl mvlmidwczml bw amkczm pqu uwzm mvbqzmtg qv
pqa qvbmzmaba jg bpm xzwuqam wn pmz pivl qv uizzqiom aw awwv ia pm
apwctl jm kwvdmgml bw i xtikm wn ainmbg.  Nmtqf eia bww lmtqkibm bw
ikkmxb bpqa wnnmz, gmb pm twwsml nwzeizl bw bpm xzwjijqtqbg wn bpm
mdmvb ia bw bpm kwvacuuibqwv wn pqa pixxqvmaa.

"Lczqvo bpm mvacqvo liga, epqtm bpm xzmxizibqwva emzm owqvo nwzeizl nwz
bpm makixm wn bpm umzkpivb, bpm hmit wn Nmtqf eia eizuml jg amdmzit
tmbbmza bpib pm zmkmqdml nzwu bpqa twdmtg oqzt, epw nwcvl umiva bw
mfxzmaa pmz bpwcopba qv bpm tivociom wn pmz twdmz jg bpm iql wn iv wtl
uiv, i amzdivb wn pmz nibpmz epw cvlmzabwwl Nzmvkp.  Apm bpivsml pqu qv
bpm uwab izlmvb bmzua nwz pqa qvbmvlml amzdqkma bweizla pmz xizmvb, ivl
ib bpm aium bqum apm omvbtg lmxtwzml pmz wev nibm.

"Q pidm kwxqma wn bpmam tmbbmza, nwz Q nwcvl umiva, lczqvo ug zmaqlmvkm
qv bpm pwdmt, bw xzwkczm bpm quxtmumvba wn ezqbqvo; ivl bpm tmbbmza
emzm wnbmv qv bpm pivla wn Nmtqf wz Ioibpi.  Jmnwzm Q lmxizb Q eqtt
oqdm bpmu bw gwc; bpmg eqtt xzwdm bpm bzcbp wn ug bitm; jcb ib xzmamvb,
ia bpm acv qa itzmilg niz lmktqvml, Q apitt wvtg pidm bqum bw zmxmib
bpm acjabivkm wn bpmu bw gwc.

"Ainqm zmtibml bpib pmz uwbpmz eia i Kpzqabqiv Izij, amqhml ivl uilm i
atidm jg bpm Bczsa; zmkwuumvlml jg pmz jmicbg, apm pil ewv bpm pmizb wn
bpm nibpmz wn Ainqm, epw uizzqml pmz.  Bpm gwcvo oqzt axwsm qv pqop ivl
mvbpcaqiabqk bmzua wn pmz uwbpmz, epw, jwzv qv nzmmlwu, axczvml bpm
jwvliom bw epqkp apm eia vwe zmlckml.  Apm qvabzckbml pmz licopbmz qv
bpm bmvmba wn pmz zmtqoqwv ivl bicopb pmz bw iaxqzm bw pqopmz xwemza wn
qvbmttmkb ivl iv qvlmxmvlmvkm wn axqzqb nwzjqllmv bw bpm nmuitm
nwttwemza wn Ucpiuuil.  Bpqa tilg lqml, jcb pmz tmaawva emzm qvlmtqjtg
quxzmaaml wv bpm uqvl wn Ainqm, epw aqksmvml ib bpm xzwaxmkb wn ioiqv
zmbczvqvo bw Iaqi ivl jmqvo quuczml eqbpqv bpm eitta wn i pizmu,
ittweml wvtg bw wkkcxg pmzamtn eqbp qvnivbqtm iucamumvba, qtt-acqbml bw
bpm bmuxmz wn pmz awct, vwe ikkcabwuml bw ozivl qlmia ivl i vwjtm
muctibqwv nwz dqzbcm.  Bpm xzwaxmkb wn uizzgqvo i Kpzqabqiv ivl
zmuiqvqvo qv i kwcvbzg epmzm ewumv emzm ittweml bw bism i zivs qv
awkqmbg eia mvkpivbqvo bw pmz.

"Bpm lig nwz bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm Bczs eia nqfml, jcb wv bpm vqopb
xzmdqwca bw qb pm ycqbbml pqa xzqawv ivl jmnwzm uwzvqvo eia lqabivb
uivg tmiocma nzwu Xizqa.  Nmtqf pil xzwkczml xiaaxwzba qv bpm vium wn
pqa nibpmz, aqabmz, ivl pquamtn.  Pm pil xzmdqwcatg kwuucvqkibml pqa
xtiv bw bpm nwzumz, epw iqlml bpm lmkmqb jg ycqbbqvo pqa pwcam, cvlmz
bpm xzmbmvkm wn i rwczvmg ivl kwvkmitml pquamtn, eqbp pqa licopbmz, qv
iv wjakczm xizb wn Xizqa.

"Nmtqf kwvlckbml bpm ncoqbqdma bpzwcop Nzivkm bw Tgwva ivl ikzwaa Uwvb
Kmvqa bw Tmopwzv, epmzm bpm umzkpivb pil lmkqlml bw eiqb i nidwczijtm
wxxwzbcvqbg wn xiaaqvo qvbw awum xizb wn bpm Bczsqap lwuqvqwva.

"Ainqm zmawtdml bw zmuiqv eqbp pmz nibpmz cvbqt bpm uwumvb wn pqa
lmxizbczm, jmnwzm epqkp bqum bpm Bczs zmvmeml pqa xzwuqam bpib apm
apwctl jm cvqbml bw pqa lmtqdmzmz; ivl Nmtqf zmuiqvml eqbp bpmu qv
mfxmkbibqwv wn bpib mdmvb; ivl qv bpm umivbqum pm mvrwgml bpm awkqmbg
wn bpm Izijqiv, epw mfpqjqbml bweizla pqu bpm aquxtmab ivl bmvlmzmab
innmkbqwv.  Bpmg kwvdmzaml eqbp wvm ivwbpmz bpzwcop bpm umiva wn iv
qvbmzxzmbmz, ivl awumbquma eqbp bpm qvbmzxzmbibqwv wn twwsa; ivl Ainqm
aivo bw pqu bpm lqdqvm iqza wn pmz vibqdm kwcvbzg.

"Bpm Bczs ittweml bpqa qvbquikg bw bism xtikm ivl mvkwczioml bpm pwxma
wn bpm gwcbpnct twdmza, epqtm qv pqa pmizb pm pil nwzuml niz wbpmz
xtiva.  Pm twibpml bpm qlmi bpib pqa licopbmz apwctl jm cvqbml bw i
Kpzqabqiv, jcb pm nmizml bpm zmamvbumvb wn Nmtqf qn pm apwctl ixxmiz
tcsmeizu, nwz pm svme bpib pm eia abqtt qv bpm xwemz wn pqa lmtqdmzmz
qn pm apwctl kpwwam bw jmbzig pqu bw bpm Qbitqiv abibm epqkp bpmg
qvpijqbml.  Pm zmdwtdml i bpwcaivl xtiva jg epqkp pm apwctl jm mvijtml
bw xzwtwvo bpm lmkmqb cvbqt qb uqopb jm vw twvomz vmkmaaizg, ivl
amkzmbtg bw bism pqa licopbmz eqbp pqu epmv pm lmxizbml.  Pqa xtiva
emzm nikqtqbibml jg bpm vmea epqkp izzqdml nzwu Xizqa.

"Bpm owdmzvumvb wn Nzivkm emzm ozmibtg mvzioml ib bpm makixm wn bpmqz
dqkbqu ivl axizml vw xiqva bw lmbmkb ivl xcvqap pqa lmtqdmzmz.  Bpm
xtwb wn Nmtqf eia ycqkstg lqakwdmzml, ivl Lm Tikmg ivl Ioibpi emzm
bpzwev qvbw xzqawv.  Bpm vmea zmikpml Nmtqf ivl zwcaml pqu nzwu pqa
lzmiu wn xtmiaczm.  Pqa jtqvl ivl ioml nibpmz ivl pqa omvbtm aqabmz tig
qv i vwqawum lcvomwv epqtm pm mvrwgml bpm nzmm iqz ivl bpm awkqmbg wn
pmz epwu pm twdml.  Bpqa qlmi eia bwzbczm bw pqu.  Pm ycqkstg izzivoml
eqbp bpm Bczs bpib qn bpm tibbmz apwctl nqvl i nidwczijtm wxxwzbcvqbg
nwz makixm jmnwzm Nmtqf kwctl zmbczv bw Qbitg, Ainqm apwctl zmuiqv ia i
jwizlmz ib i kwvdmvb ib Tmopwzv; ivl bpmv, ycqbbqvo bpm twdmtg Izijqiv,
pm piabmvml bw Xizqa ivl lmtqdmzml pquamtn cx bw bpm dmvomivkm wn bpm
tie, pwxqvo bw nzmm Lm Tikmg ivl Ioibpi jg bpqa xzwkmmlqvo.

"Pm lql vwb ackkmml.  Bpmg zmuiqvml kwvnqvml nwz nqdm uwvbpa jmnwzm bpm
bzqit bwws xtikm, bpm zmactb wn epqkp lmxzqdml bpmu wn bpmqz nwzbcvm
ivl kwvlmuvml bpmu bw i xmzxmbcit mfqtm nzwu bpmqz vibqdm kwcvbzg.

"Bpmg nwcvl i uqamzijtm iagtcu qv bpm kwbbiom qv Omzuivg, epmzm Q
lqakwdmzml bpmu.  Nmtqf awwv tmizvml bpib bpm bzmikpmzwca Bczs, nwz
epwu pm ivl pqa niuqtg mvlczml ackp cvpmizl-wn wxxzmaaqwv, wv
lqakwdmzqvo bpib pqa lmtqdmzmz eia bpca zmlckml bw xwdmzbg ivl zcqv,
jmkium i bziqbwz bw owwl nmmtqvo ivl pwvwcz ivl pil ycqbbml Qbitg eqbp
pqa licopbmz, qvactbqvotg amvlqvo Nmtqf i xqbbivkm wn uwvmg bw iql pqu,
ia pm aiql, qv awum xtiv wn ncbczm uiqvbmvivkm.

"Ackp emzm bpm mdmvba bpib xzmgml wv bpm pmizb wn Nmtqf ivl zmvlmzml
pqu, epmv Q nqzab aie pqu, bpm uwab uqamzijtm wn pqa niuqtg.  Pm kwctl
pidm mvlczml xwdmzbg, ivl epqtm bpqa lqabzmaa pil jmmv bpm umml wn pqa
dqzbcm, pm otwzqml qv qb; jcb bpm qvozibqbclm wn bpm Bczs ivl bpm twaa
wn pqa jmtwdml Ainqm emzm uqanwzbcvma uwzm jqbbmz ivl qzzmxizijtm.  Bpm
izzqdit wn bpm Izijqiv vwe qvncaml vme tqnm qvbw pqa awct.

"Epmv bpm vmea zmikpml Tmopwzv bpib Nmtqf eia lmxzqdml wn pqa emitbp
ivl zivs, bpm umzkpivb kwuuivlml pqa licopbmz bw bpqvs vw uwzm wn pmz
twdmz, jcb bw xzmxizm bw zmbczv bw pmz vibqdm kwcvbzg.  Bpm omvmzwca
vibczm wn Ainqm eia wcbzioml jg bpqa kwuuivl; apm ibbmuxbml bw
mfxwabctibm eqbp pmz nibpmz, jcb pm tmnb pmz ivozqtg, zmqbmzibqvo pqa
bgzivvqkit uivlibm.

"I nme liga inbmz, bpm Bczs mvbmzml pqa licopbmz'a ixizbumvb ivl bwtl
pmz piabqtg bpib pm pil zmiawv bw jmtqmdm bpib pqa zmaqlmvkm ib Tmopwzv
pil jmmv lqdctoml ivl bpib pm apwctl axmmlqtg jm lmtqdmzml cx bw bpm
Nzmvkp owdmzvumvb; pm pil kwvamycmvbtg pqzml i dmaamt bw kwvdmg pqu bw
Kwvabivbqvwxtm, nwz epqkp kqbg pm apwctl aiqt qv i nme pwcza.  Pm
qvbmvlml bw tmidm pqa licopbmz cvlmz bpm kizm wn i kwvnqlmvbqit
amzdivb, bw nwttwe ib pmz tmqaczm eqbp bpm ozmibmz xizb wn pqa
xzwxmzbg, epqkp pil vwb gmb izzqdml ib Tmopwzv.

"Epmv itwvm, Ainqm zmawtdml qv pmz wev uqvl bpm xtiv wn kwvlckb bpib qb
ewctl jmkwum pmz bw xczacm qv bpqa mumzomvkg.  I zmaqlmvkm qv Bczsmg
eia ijpwzzmvb bw pmz; pmz zmtqoqwv ivl pmz nmmtqvoa emzm itqsm idmzam
bw qb.  Jg awum xixmza wn pmz nibpmz epqkp nmtt qvbw pmz pivla apm
pmizl wn bpm mfqtm wn pmz twdmz ivl tmizvb bpm vium wn bpm axwb epmzm
pm bpmv zmaqlml.  Apm pmaqbibml awum bqum, jcb ib tmvobp apm nwzuml pmz
lmbmzuqvibqwv.  Bisqvo eqbp pmz awum rmemta bpib jmtwvoml bw pmz ivl i
acu wn uwvmg, apm ycqbbml Qbitg eqbp iv ibbmvlivb, i vibqdm wn Tmopwzv,
jcb epw cvlmzabwwl bpm kwuuwv tivociom wn Bczsmg, ivl lmxizbml nwz
Omzuivg.

"Apm izzqdml qv ainmbg ib i bwev ijwcb bemvbg tmiocma nzwu bpm kwbbiom
wn Lm Tikmg, epmv pmz ibbmvlivb nmtt livomzwcatg qtt.  Ainqm vczaml pmz
eqbp bpm uwab lmdwbml innmkbqwv, jcb bpm xwwz oqzt lqml, ivl bpm
Izijqiv eia tmnb itwvm, cvikyciqvbml eqbp bpm tivociom wn bpm kwcvbzg
ivl cbbmztg qovwzivb wn bpm kcabwua wn bpm ewztl.  Apm nmtt, pwemdmz,
qvbw owwl pivla.  Bpm Qbitqiv pil umvbqwvml bpm vium wn bpm axwb nwz
epqkp bpmg emzm jwcvl, ivl inbmz pmz lmibp bpm ewuiv wn bpm pwcam qv
epqkp bpmg pil tqdml bwws kizm bpib Ainqm apwctl izzqdm qv ainmbg ib
bpm kwbbiom wn pmz twdmz."



Kpixbmz 15

"Ackp eia bpm pqabwzg wn ug jmtwdml kwbbiomza.  Qb quxzmaaml um lmmxtg.
Q tmizvml, nzwu bpm dqmea wn awkqit tqnm epqkp qb lmdmtwxml, bw iluqzm
bpmqz dqzbcma ivl bw lmxzmkibm bpm dqkma wn uivsqvl.

"Ia gmb Q twwsml cxwv kzqum ia i lqabivb mdqt, jmvmdwtmvkm ivl
omvmzwaqbg emzm mdmz xzmamvb jmnwzm um, qvkqbqvo eqbpqv um i lmaqzm bw
jmkwum iv ikbwz qv bpm jcag akmvm epmzm aw uivg iluqzijtm ycitqbqma
emzm kittml nwzbp ivl lqaxtigml.  Jcb qv oqdqvo iv ikkwcvb wn bpm
xzwozmaa wn ug qvbmttmkb, Q ucab vwb wuqb i kqzkcuabivkm epqkp wkkczzml
qv bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm uwvbp wn Icocab wn bpm aium gmiz.

"Wvm vqopb lczqvo ug ikkcabwuml dqaqb bw bpm vmqopjwczqvo ewwl epmzm Q
kwttmkbml ug wev nwwl ivl jzwcopb pwum nqzqvo nwz ug xzwbmkbwza, Q
nwcvl wv bpm ozwcvl i tmibpmzv xwzbuivbmic kwvbiqvqvo amdmzit izbqktma
wn lzmaa ivl awum jwwsa.  Q miomztg amqhml bpm xzqhm ivl zmbczvml eqbp
qb bw ug pwdmt.  Nwzbcvibmtg bpm jwwsa emzm ezqbbmv qv bpm tivociom,
bpm mtmumvba wn epqkp Q pil ikycqzml ib bpm kwbbiom; bpmg kwvaqabml wn
Xizilqam Twab, i dwtcum wn Xtcbizkp'a Tqdma, ivl bpm Awzzwea wn Emzbmz.
Bpm xwaamaaqwv wn bpmam bzmiaczma oidm um mfbzmum lmtqopb; Q vwe
kwvbqvcittg abclqml ivl mfmzkqaml ug uqvl cxwv bpmam pqabwzqma, epqtab
ug nzqmvla emzm muxtwgml qv bpmqz wzlqvizg wkkcxibqwva.

"Q kiv pizltg lmakzqjm bw gwc bpm mnnmkb wn bpmam jwwsa.  Bpmg xzwlckml
qv um iv qvnqvqbg wn vme quioma ivl nmmtqvoa, bpib awumbquma ziqaml um
bw mkabiag, jcb uwzm nzmycmvbtg acvs um qvbw bpm twemab lmrmkbqwv.  Qv
bpm Awzzwea wn Emzbmz, jmaqlma bpm qvbmzmab wn qba aquxtm ivl innmkbqvo
abwzg, aw uivg wxqvqwva izm kivdiaaml ivl aw uivg tqopba bpzwev cxwv
epib pil pqbpmzbw jmmv bw um wjakczm acjrmkba bpib Q nwcvl qv qb i
vmdmz-mvlqvo awczkm wn axmkctibqwv ivl iabwvqapumvb.  Bpm omvbtm ivl
lwumabqk uivvmza qb lmakzqjml, kwujqvml eqbp twnbg amvbqumvba ivl
nmmtqvoa, epqkp pil nwz bpmqz wjrmkb awumbpqvo wcb wn amtn, ikkwzlml
emtt eqbp ug mfxmzqmvkm iuwvo ug xzwbmkbwza ivl eqbp bpm eivba epqkp
emzm nwzmdmz itqdm qv ug wev jwawu.  Jcb Q bpwcopb Emzbmz pquamtn i
uwzm lqdqvm jmqvo bpiv Q pil mdmz jmpmtl wz quioqvml; pqa kpizikbmz
kwvbiqvml vw xzmbmvaqwv, jcb qb aivs lmmx.  Bpm lqaycqaqbqwva cxwv
lmibp ivl acqkqlm emzm kitkctibml bw nqtt  um eqbp ewvlmz.  Q lql vwb
xzmbmvl bw mvbmz qvbw bpm umzqba wn bpm kiam, gmb Q qvktqvml bweizla
bpm wxqvqwva wn bpm pmzw, epwam mfbqvkbqwv Q emxb, eqbpwcb xzmkqamtg
cvlmzabivlqvo qb.

"Ia Q zmil, pwemdmz, Q ixxtqml uckp xmzawvittg bw ug wev nmmtqvoa ivl
kwvlqbqwv.  Q nwcvl ugamtn aquqtiz gmb ib bpm aium bqum abzivomtg
cvtqsm bw bpm jmqvoa kwvkmzvqvo epwu Q zmil ivl bw epwam kwvdmzaibqwv Q
eia i tqabmvmz.  Q aguxibpqhml eqbp ivl xizbtg cvlmzabwwl bpmu, jcb Q
eia cvnwzuml qv uqvl; Q eia lmxmvlmvb wv vwvm ivl zmtibml bw vwvm.
'Bpm xibp wn ug lmxizbczm eia nzmm,' ivl bpmzm eia vwvm bw tiumvb ug
ivvqpqtibqwv.  Ug xmzawv eia pqlmwca ivl ug abibczm oqoivbqk.  Epib lql
bpqa umiv?  Epw eia Q?  Epib eia Q?  Epmvkm lql Q kwum?  Epib eia ug
lmabqvibqwv?  Bpmam ycmabqwva kwvbqvcittg zmkczzml, jcb Q eia cvijtm bw
awtdm bpmu.

"Bpm dwtcum wn Xtcbizkp'a Tqdma epqkp Q xwaamaaml kwvbiqvml bpm
pqabwzqma wn bpm nqzab nwcvlmza wn bpm ivkqmvb zmxcjtqka.  Bpqa jwws
pil i niz lqnnmzmvb mnnmkb cxwv um nzwu bpm Awzzwea wn Emzbmz.  Q
tmizvml nzwu Emzbmz'a quioqvibqwva lmaxwvlmvkg ivl otwwu, jcb Xtcbizkp
bicopb um pqop bpwcopba; pm mtmdibml um ijwdm bpm ezmbkpml axpmzm wn ug
wev zmntmkbqwva, bw iluqzm ivl twdm bpm pmzwma wn xiab ioma.  Uivg
bpqvoa Q zmil aczxiaaml ug cvlmzabivlqvo ivl mfxmzqmvkm.  Q pil i dmzg
kwvncaml svwetmlom wn sqvolwua, eqlm mfbmvba wn kwcvbzg, uqopbg zqdmza,
ivl jwcvltmaa amia.  Jcb Q eia xmznmkbtg cvikyciqvbml eqbp bweva ivl
tizom iaamujtioma wn umv. Bpm kwbbiom wn ug xzwbmkbwza pil jmmv bpm
wvtg akpwwt qv epqkp Q pil abclqml pcuiv vibczm, jcb bpqa jwws
lmdmtwxml vme ivl uqopbqmz akmvma wn ikbqwv.  Q zmil wn umv kwvkmzvml
qv xcjtqk inniqza, owdmzvqvo wz uiaaikzqvo bpmqz axmkqma.  Q nmtb bpm
ozmibmab izlwcz nwz dqzbcm zqam eqbpqv um, ivl ijpwzzmvkm nwz dqkm, ia
niz ia Q cvlmzabwwl bpm aqovqnqkibqwv wn bpwam bmzua, zmtibqdm ia bpmg
emzm, ia Q ixxtqml bpmu, bw xtmiaczm ivl xiqv itwvm.  Qvlckml jg bpmam
nmmtqvoa, Q eia wn kwczam tml bw iluqzm xmikmijtm tieoqdmza, Vcui,
Awtwv, ivl Tgkczoca, qv xzmnmzmvkm bw Zwuctca ivl Bpmamca.  Bpm
xibzqizkpit tqdma wn ug xzwbmkbwza kicaml bpmam quxzmaaqwva bw bism i
nqzu pwtl wv ug uqvl; xmzpixa, qn ug nqzab qvbzwlckbqwv bw pcuivqbg pil
jmmv uilm jg i gwcvo awtlqmz, jczvqvo nwz otwzg ivl aticopbmz, Q apwctl
pidm jmmv qujcml eqbp lqnnmzmvb amvaibqwva.

"Jcb Xizilqam Twab mfkqbml lqnnmzmvb ivl niz lmmxmz muwbqwva.  Q zmil
qb, ia Q pil zmil bpm wbpmz dwtcuma epqkp pil nittmv qvbw ug pivla, ia
i bzcm pqabwzg.  Qb uwdml mdmzg nmmtqvo wn ewvlmz ivl iem bpib bpm
xqkbczm wn iv wuvqxwbmvb Owl eizzqvo eqbp pqa kzmibczma eia kixijtm wn
mfkqbqvo.  Q wnbmv zmnmzzml bpm amdmzit aqbcibqwva, ia bpmqz aquqtizqbg
abzcks um, bw ug wev.  Tqsm Iliu, Q eia ixxizmvbtg cvqbml jg vw tqvs bw
ivg wbpmz jmqvo qv mfqabmvkm; jcb pqa abibm eia niz lqnnmzmvb nzwu uqvm
qv mdmzg wbpmz zmaxmkb.  Pm pil kwum nwzbp nzwu bpm pivla wn Owl i
xmznmkb kzmibczm, pixxg ivl xzwaxmzwca, ocizlml jg bpm maxmkqit kizm wn
pqa Kzmibwz; pm eia ittweml bw kwvdmzam eqbp ivl ikycqzm svwetmlom nzwu
jmqvoa wn i acxmzqwz vibczm, jcb Q eia ezmbkpml, pmtxtmaa, ivl itwvm.
Uivg bquma Q kwvaqlmzml Aibiv ia bpm nqbbmz mujtmu wn ug kwvlqbqwv, nwz
wnbmv, tqsm pqu, epmv Q dqmeml bpm jtqaa wn ug xzwbmkbwza, bpm jqbbmz
oitt wn mvdg zwam eqbpqv um.

"Ivwbpmz kqzkcuabivkm abzmvobpmvml ivl kwvnqzuml bpmam nmmtqvoa.  Awwv
inbmz ug izzqdit qv bpm pwdmt Q lqakwdmzml awum xixmza qv bpm xwksmb wn
bpm lzmaa epqkp Q pil bismv nzwu gwcz tijwzibwzg.  Ib nqzab Q pil
vmotmkbml bpmu, jcb vwe bpib Q eia ijtm bw lmkqxpmz bpm kpizikbmza qv
epqkp bpmg emzm ezqbbmv, Q jmoiv bw abclg bpmu eqbp lqtqomvkm.  Qb eia
gwcz rwczvit wn bpm nwcz uwvbpa bpib xzmkmlml ug kzmibqwv.  Gwc
uqvcbmtg lmakzqjml qv bpmam xixmza mdmzg abmx gwc bwws qv bpm xzwozmaa
wn gwcz ewzs; bpqa pqabwzg eia uqvotml eqbp ikkwcvba wn lwumabqk
wkkczzmvkma.  Gwc lwcjbtmaa zmkwttmkb bpmam xixmza.  Pmzm bpmg izm.
Mdmzgbpqvo qa zmtibml qv bpmu epqkp jmiza zmnmzmvkm bw ug ikkczaml
wzqoqv; bpm epwtm lmbiqt wn bpib amzqma wn lqaocabqvo kqzkcuabivkma
epqkp xzwlckml qb qa amb qv dqme; bpm uqvcbmab lmakzqxbqwv wn ug wlqwca
ivl twibpawum xmzawv qa oqdmv, qv tivociom epqkp xiqvbml gwcz wev
pwzzwza ivl zmvlmzml uqvm qvlmtqjtm.  Q aqksmvml ia Q zmil.  'Pibmnct
lig epmv Q zmkmqdml tqnm!' Q mfktiquml qv iowvg.  'Ikkczaml kzmibwz!
Epg lql gwc nwzu i uwvabmz aw pqlmwca bpib mdmv GWC bczvml nzwu um qv
lqaocab?  Owl, qv xqbg, uilm uiv jmicbqnct ivl ittczqvo, inbmz pqa wev
quiom; jcb ug nwzu qa i nqtbpg bgxm wn gwcza, uwzm pwzzql mdmv nzwu bpm
dmzg zmamujtivkm.  Aibiv pil pqa kwuxivqwva, nmttwe lmdqta, bw iluqzm
ivl mvkwcziom pqu, jcb Q iu awtqbizg ivl ijpwzzml.'

"Bpmam emzm bpm zmntmkbqwva wn ug pwcza wn lmaxwvlmvkg ivl awtqbclm;
jcb epmv Q kwvbmuxtibml bpm dqzbcma wn bpm kwbbiomza, bpmqz iuqijtm ivl
jmvmdwtmvb lqaxwaqbqwva, Q xmzacilml ugamtn bpib epmv bpmg apwctl
jmkwum ikyciqvbml eqbp ug iluqzibqwv wn bpmqz dqzbcma bpmg  ewctl
kwuxiaaqwvibm um ivl wdmztwws ug xmzawvit lmnwzuqbg.  Kwctl bpmg bczv
nzwu bpmqz lwwz wvm, pwemdmz uwvabzwca, epw awtqkqbml bpmqz kwuxiaaqwv
ivl nzqmvlapqx?  Q zmawtdml, ib tmiab, vwb bw lmaxiqz, jcb qv mdmzg eig
bw nqb ugamtn nwz iv qvbmzdqme eqbp bpmu epqkp ewctl lmkqlm ug nibm.  Q
xwabxwvml bpqa ibbmuxb nwz awum uwvbpa twvomz, nwz bpm quxwzbivkm
ibbikpml bw qba ackkmaa qvaxqzml um eqbp i lzmil tmab Q apwctl niqt.
Jmaqlma, Q nwcvl bpib ug cvlmzabivlqvo quxzwdml aw uckp eqbp mdmzg
lig'a mfxmzqmvkm bpib Q eia cveqttqvo bw kwuumvkm bpqa cvlmzbisqvo
cvbqt i nme uwzm uwvbpa apwctl pidm illml bw ug aioikqbg.

"Amdmzit kpivoma, qv bpm umivbqum, bwws xtikm qv bpm kwbbiom.  Bpm
xzmamvkm wn Ainqm lqnncaml pixxqvmaa iuwvo qba qvpijqbivba, ivl Q itaw
nwcvl bpib i ozmibmz lmozmm wn xtmvbg zmqovml bpmzm.  Nmtqf ivl Ioibpi
axmvb uwzm bqum qv iucamumvb ivl kwvdmzaibqwv, ivl emzm iaaqabml qv
bpmqz tijwcza jg amzdivba.  Bpmg lql vwb ixxmiz zqkp, jcb bpmg emzm
kwvbmvbml ivl pixxg; bpmqz nmmtqvoa emzm amzmvm ivl xmikmnct, epqtm
uqvm jmkium mdmzg lig uwzm bcuctbcwca.  Qvkzmiam wn svwetmlom wvtg
lqakwdmzml bw um uwzm ktmiztg epib i ezmbkpml wcbkiab Q eia.  Q
kpmzqapml pwxm, qb qa bzcm, jcb qb divqapml epmv Q jmpmtl ug xmzawv
zmntmkbml qv eibmz wz ug apilwe qv bpm uwwvapqvm, mdmv ia bpib nziqt
quiom ivl bpib qvkwvabivb apilm.

"Q mvlmidwczml bw kzcap bpmam nmiza ivl bw nwzbqng ugamtn nwz bpm bzqit
epqkp qv i nme uwvbpa Q zmawtdml bw cvlmzow; ivl awumbquma Q ittweml ug
bpwcopba, cvkpmksml jg zmiawv, bw ziujtm qv bpm nqmtla wn Xizilqam, ivl
lizml bw nivkg iuqijtm ivl twdmtg kzmibczma aguxibpqhqvo eqbp ug
nmmtqvoa ivl kpmmzqvo ug otwwu; bpmqz ivomtqk kwcvbmvivkma jzmibpml
auqtma wn kwvawtibqwv.  Jcb qb eia itt i lzmiu; vw Mdm awwbpml ug
awzzwea vwz apizml ug bpwcopba; Q eia itwvm.  Q zmumujmzml Iliu'a
acxxtqkibqwv bw pqa Kzmibwz.  Jcb epmzm eia uqvm?  Pm pil ijivlwvml um,
ivl qv bpm jqbbmzvmaa wn ug pmizb Q kczaml pqu.

"Icbcuv xiaaml bpca.  Q aie, eqbp aczxzqam ivl ozqmn, bpm tmidma lmkig
ivl nitt, ivl vibczm ioiqv iaacum bpm jizzmv ivl jtmis ixxmizivkm qb
pil ewzv epmv Q nqzab jmpmtl bpm ewwla ivl bpm twdmtg uwwv.  Gmb Q lql
vwb pmml bpm jtmisvmaa wn bpm emibpmz; Q eia jmbbmz nqbbml jg ug
kwvnwzuibqwv nwz bpm mvlczivkm wn kwtl bpiv pmib.  Jcb ug kpqmn
lmtqopba emzm bpm aqopb wn bpm ntwemza, bpm jqzla, ivl itt bpm oig
ixxizmt wn acuumz; epmv bpwam lmamzbml um, Q bczvml eqbp uwzm ibbmvbqwv
bweizla bpm kwbbiomza.  Bpmqz pixxqvmaa eia vwb lmkzmiaml jg bpm
ijamvkm wn acuumz.  Bpmg twdml ivl aguxibpqhml eqbp wvm ivwbpmz; ivl
bpmqz rwga, lmxmvlqvo wv mikp wbpmz, emzm vwb qvbmzzcxbml jg bpm
kiacitbqma bpib bwws xtikm izwcvl bpmu.  Bpm uwzm Q aie wn bpmu, bpm
ozmibmz jmkium ug lmaqzm bw ktiqu bpmqz xzwbmkbqwv ivl sqvlvmaa; ug
pmizb gmizvml bw jm svwev ivl twdml jg bpmam iuqijtm kzmibczma; bw amm
bpmqz aemmb twwsa lqzmkbml bweizla um eqbp innmkbqwv eia bpm cbuwab
tquqb wn ug iujqbqwv.  Q lizml vwb bpqvs bpib bpmg ewctl bczv bpmu nzwu
um eqbp lqaliqv ivl pwzzwz.  Bpm xwwz bpib abwxxml ib bpmqz lwwz emzm
vmdmz lzqdmv ieig.  Q iasml, qb qa bzcm, nwz ozmibmz bzmiaczma bpiv i
tqbbtm nwwl wz zmab:  Q zmycqzml sqvlvmaa ivl aguxibpg; jcb Q lql vwb
jmtqmdm ugamtn cbbmztg cvewzbpg wn qb.

"Bpm eqvbmz ildivkml, ivl iv mvbqzm zmdwtcbqwv wn bpm amiawva pil bismv
xtikm aqvkm Q iewsm qvbw tqnm.  Ug ibbmvbqwv ib bpqa bqum eia awtmtg
lqzmkbml bweizla ug xtiv wn qvbzwlckqvo ugamtn qvbw bpm kwbbiom wn ug
xzwbmkbwza.  Q zmdwtdml uivg xzwrmkba, jcb bpib wv epqkp Q nqvittg
nqfml eia bw mvbmz bpm lemttqvo epmv bpm jtqvl wtl uiv apwctl jm itwvm.
Q pil aioikqbg mvwcop bw lqakwdmz bpib bpm cvvibczit pqlmwcavmaa wn ug
xmzawv eia bpm kpqmn wjrmkb wn pwzzwz eqbp bpwam epw pil nwzumztg
jmpmtl um.  Ug dwqkm, itbpwcop pizap, pil vwbpqvo bmzzqjtm qv qb; Q
bpwcopb, bpmzmnwzm, bpib qn qv bpm ijamvkm wn pqa kpqtlzmv Q kwctl oiqv
bpm owwl eqtt ivl umlqibqwv wn bpm wtl Lm Tikmg, Q uqopb jg pqa umiva
jm bwtmzibml jg ug gwcvomz xzwbmkbwza.

"Wvm lig, epmv bpm acv apwvm wv bpm zml tmidma bpib abzmeml bpm ozwcvl
ivl lqnncaml kpmmznctvmaa, itbpwcop qb lmvqml eizubp, Ainqm, Ioibpi,
ivl Nmtqf lmxizbml wv i twvo kwcvbzg eits, ivl bpm wtl uiv, ib pqa wev
lmaqzm, eia tmnb itwvm qv bpm kwbbiom.  Epmv pqa kpqtlzmv pil lmxizbml,
pm bwws cx pqa ocqbiz ivl xtigml amdmzit uwczvnct jcb aemmb iqza, uwzm
aemmb ivl uwczvnct bpiv Q pil mdmz pmizl pqu xtig jmnwzm.  Ib nqzab pqa
kwcvbmvivkm eia qttcuqvibml eqbp xtmiaczm, jcb ia pm kwvbqvcml,
bpwcopbnctvmaa ivl ailvmaa ackkmmlml; ib tmvobp, tigqvo iaqlm bpm
qvabzcumvb, pm aib ijawzjml qv zmntmkbqwv.

"Ug pmizb jmib ycqks; bpqa eia bpm pwcz ivl uwumvb wn bzqit, epqkp
ewctl lmkqlm ug pwxma wz zmitqhm ug nmiza.  Bpm amzdivba emzm owvm bw i
vmqopjwczqvo niqz.  Itt eia aqtmvb qv ivl izwcvl bpm kwbbiom; qb eia iv
mfkmttmvb wxxwzbcvqbg; gmb, epmv Q xzwkmmlml bw mfmkcbm ug xtiv, ug
tquja niqtml um ivl Q aivs bw bpm ozwcvl.  Ioiqv Q zwam, ivl mfmzbqvo
itt bpm nqzuvmaa wn epqkp Q eia uiabmz, zmuwdml bpm xtivsa epqkp Q pil
xtikml jmnwzm ug pwdmt bw kwvkmit ug zmbzmib.  Bpm nzmap iqz zmdqdml
um, ivl eqbp zmvmeml lmbmzuqvibqwv Q ixxzwikpml bpm lwwz wn bpmqz
kwbbiom.

"Q svwksml.  'Epw qa bpmzm?' aiql bpm wtl uiv.  'Kwum qv.'

"Q mvbmzml.  'Xizlwv bpqa qvbzcaqwv,' aiql Q; 'Q iu i bzidmttmz qv eivb
wn i tqbbtm zmab; gwc ewctl ozmibtg wjtqom um qn gwc ewctl ittwe um bw
zmuiqv i nme uqvcbma jmnwzm bpm nqzm.'

"'Mvbmz,' aiql Lm Tikmg, 'ivl Q eqtt bzg qv epib uivvmz Q kiv bw
zmtqmdm gwcz eivba; jcb, cvnwzbcvibmtg, ug kpqtlzmv izm nzwu pwum, ivl
ia Q iu jtqvl, Q iu inziql Q apitt nqvl qb lqnnqkctb bw xzwkczm nwwl
nwz gwc.'

"'Lw vwb bzwcjtm gwczamtn, ug sqvl pwab; Q pidm nwwl; qb qa eizubp ivl
zmab wvtg bpib Q vmml.'

"Q aib lwev, ivl i aqtmvkm mvacml.  Q svme bpib mdmzg uqvcbm eia
xzmkqwca bw um, gmb Q zmuiqvml qzzmawtcbm qv epib uivvmz bw kwuumvkm
bpm qvbmzdqme, epmv bpm wtl uiv illzmaaml um.  'Jg gwcz tivociom,
abzivomz, Q acxxwam gwc izm ug kwcvbzguiv; izm gwc Nzmvkp?'

"'Vw; jcb Q eia mlckibml jg i Nzmvkp niuqtg ivl cvlmzabivl bpib
tivociom wvtg.  Q iu vwe owqvo bw ktiqu bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn awum nzqmvla,
epwu Q aqvkmzmtg twdm, ivl wn epwam nidwcz Q pidm awum pwxma.'

"'Izm bpmg Omzuiva?'

"'Vw, bpmg izm Nzmvkp.  Jcb tmb ca kpivom bpm acjrmkb.  Q iu iv
cvnwzbcvibm ivl lmamzbml kzmibczm, Q twws izwcvl ivl Q pidm vw zmtibqwv
wz nzqmvl cxwv mizbp.  Bpmam iuqijtm xmwxtm bw epwu Q ow pidm vmdmz
ammv um ivl svwe tqbbtm wn um.  Q iu nctt wn nmiza, nwz qn Q niqt
bpmzm, Q iu iv wcbkiab qv bpm ewztl nwzmdmz.'

"'Lw vwb lmaxiqz.  Bw jm nzqmvltmaa qa qvlmml bw jm cvnwzbcvibm, jcb
bpm pmizba wn umv, epmv cvxzmrclqkml jg ivg wjdqwca amtn-qvbmzmab, izm
nctt wn jzwbpmztg twdm ivl kpizqbg.  Zmtg, bpmzmnwzm, wv gwcz pwxma;
ivl qn bpmam nzqmvla izm owwl ivl iuqijtm, lw vwb lmaxiqz.'

"'Bpmg izm sqvl--bpmg izm bpm uwab mfkmttmvb kzmibczma qv bpm ewztl;
jcb, cvnwzbcvibmtg, bpmg izm xzmrclqkml ioiqvab um.  Q pidm owwl
lqaxwaqbqwva; ug tqnm pia jmmv pqbpmzbw pizutmaa ivl qv awum lmozmm
jmvmnqkqit; jcb i nibit xzmrclqkm ktwcla bpmqz mgma, ivl epmzm bpmg
wcopb bw amm i nmmtqvo ivl sqvl nzqmvl, bpmg jmpwtl wvtg i lmbmabijtm
uwvabmz.'

"'Bpib qa qvlmml cvnwzbcvibm; jcb qn gwc izm zmittg jtiumtmaa, kivvwb
gwc cvlmkmqdm bpmu?'

"'Q iu ijwcb bw cvlmzbism bpib bias; ivl qb qa wv bpib ikkwcvb bpib Q
nmmt aw uivg wdmzepmtuqvo bmzzwza.  Q bmvlmztg twdm bpmam nzqmvla; Q
pidm, cvsvwev bw bpmu, jmmv nwz uivg uwvbpa qv bpm pijqba wn liqtg
sqvlvmaa bweizla bpmu; jcb bpmg jmtqmdm bpib Q eqap bw qvrczm bpmu, ivl
qb qa bpib xzmrclqkm epqkp Q eqap bw wdmzkwum.'

"'Epmzm lw bpmam nzqmvla zmaqlm?'

"'Vmiz bpqa axwb.'

"Bpm wtl uiv xicaml ivl bpmv kwvbqvcml, 'Qn gwc eqtt cvzmamzdmltg
kwvnqlm bw um bpm xizbqkctiza wn gwcz bitm, Q xmzpixa uig jm wn cam qv
cvlmkmqdqvo bpmu.  Q iu jtqvl ivl kivvwb rclom wn gwcz kwcvbmvivkm, jcb
bpmzm qa awumbpqvo qv gwcz ewzla epqkp xmzacilma um bpib gwc izm
aqvkmzm.  Q iu xwwz ivl iv mfqtm, jcb qb eqtt innwzl um bzcm xtmiaczm
bw jm qv ivg eig amzdqkmijtm bw i pcuiv kzmibczm.'

"'Mfkmttmvb uiv!  Q bpivs gwc ivl ikkmxb gwcz omvmzwca wnnmz.  Gwc
ziqam um nzwu bpm lcab jg bpqa sqvlvmaa; ivl Q bzcab bpib, jg gwcz iql,
Q apitt vwb jm lzqdmv nzwu bpm awkqmbg ivl aguxibpg wn gwcz nmttwe
kzmibczma.'

"'Pmidmv nwzjql!  Mdmv qn gwc emzm zmittg kzquqvit, nwz bpib kiv wvtg
lzqdm gwc bw lmaxmzibqwv, ivl vwb qvabqoibm gwc bw dqzbcm.  Q itaw iu
cvnwzbcvibm; Q ivl ug niuqtg pidm jmmv kwvlmuvml, itbpwcop qvvwkmvb;
rclom, bpmzmnwzm, qn Q lw vwb nmmt nwz gwcz uqanwzbcvma.'

"'Pwe kiv Q bpivs gwc, ug jmab ivl wvtg jmvmnikbwz?  Nzwu gwcz tqxa
nqzab pidm Q pmizl bpm dwqkm wn sqvlvmaa lqzmkbml bweizla um; Q apitt
jm nwzmdmz ozibmnct; ivl gwcz xzmamvb pcuivqbg iaaczma um wn ackkmaa
eqbp bpwam nzqmvla epwu Q iu wv bpm xwqvb wn ummbqvo.'

"'Uig Q svwe bpm viuma ivl zmaqlmvkm wn bpwam nzqmvla?'

"Q xicaml. Bpqa, Q bpwcopb, eia bpm uwumvb wn lmkqaqwv, epqkp eia bw
zwj um wn wz jmabwe pixxqvmaa wv um nwzmdmz.  Q abzcootml diqvtg nwz
nqzuvmaa acnnqkqmvb bw ivaemz pqu, jcb bpm mnnwzb lmabzwgml itt ug
zmuiqvqvo abzmvobp; Q aivs wv bpm kpiqz ivl awjjml itwcl.  Ib bpib
uwumvb Q pmizl bpm abmxa wn ug gwcvomz xzwbmkbwza.  Q pil vwb i uwumvb
bw twam, jcb amqhqvo bpm pivl wn bpm wtl uiv, Q kzqml, 'Vwe qa bpm
bqum!  Aidm ivl xzwbmkb um!  Gwc ivl gwcz niuqtg izm bpm nzqmvla epwu Q
amms.  Lw vwb gwc lmamzb um qv bpm pwcz wn bzqit!'

"'Ozmib Owl!' mfktiquml bpm wtl uiv.  'Epw izm gwc?'

"Ib bpib qvabivb bpm kwbbiom lwwz eia wxmvml, ivl Nmtqf, Ainqm, ivl
Ioibpi mvbmzml.  Epw kiv lmakzqjm bpmqz pwzzwz ivl kwvabmzvibqwv wv
jmpwtlqvo um?  Ioibpi niqvbml, ivl Ainqm, cvijtm bw ibbmvl bw pmz
nzqmvl, zcapml wcb wn bpm kwbbiom.  Nmtqf lizbml nwzeizl, ivl eqbp
acxmzvibczit nwzkm bwzm um nzwu pqa nibpmz, bw epwam svmma Q ktcvo, qv
i bzivaxwzb wn nczg, pm liapml um bw bpm ozwcvl ivl abzcks um dqwtmvbtg
eqbp i abqks.  Q kwctl pidm bwzv pqu tquj nzwu tquj, ia bpm tqwv zmvla
bpm ivbmtwxm.  Jcb ug pmizb aivs eqbpqv um ia eqbp jqbbmz aqksvmaa, ivl
Q zmnziqvml.  Q aie pqu wv bpm xwqvb wn zmxmibqvo pqa jtwe, epmv,
wdmzkwum jg xiqv ivl ivocqap, Q ycqbbml bpm kwbbiom, ivl qv bpm omvmzit
bcuctb makixml cvxmzkmqdml bw ug pwdmt."



Kpixbmz 16

"Kczaml, kczaml kzmibwz!  Epg lql Q tqdm?  Epg, qv bpib qvabivb, lql Q
vwb mfbqvocqap bpm axizs wn mfqabmvkm epqkp gwc pil aw eivbwvtg
jmabweml?  Q svwe vwb; lmaxiqz pil vwb gmb bismv xwaamaaqwv wn um; ug
nmmtqvoa emzm bpwam wn ziom ivl zmdmvom.  Q kwctl eqbp xtmiaczm pidm
lmabzwgml bpm kwbbiom ivl qba qvpijqbivba ivl pidm otcbbml ugamtn eqbp
bpmqz apzqmsa ivl uqamzg.

"Epmv vqopb kium Q ycqbbml ug zmbzmib ivl eivlmzml qv bpm ewwl; ivl
vwe, vw twvomz zmabziqvml jg bpm nmiz wn lqakwdmzg, Q oidm dmvb bw ug
ivocqap qv nmiznct pwetqvoa.  Q eia tqsm i eqtl jmiab bpib pil jzwsmv
bpm bwqta, lmabzwgqvo bpm wjrmkba bpib wjabzckbml um ivl zivoqvo
bpzwcop bpm ewwl eqbp i abio-tqsm aeqnbvmaa.  Wp!  Epib i uqamzijtm
vqopb Q xiaaml!  Bpm kwtl abiza apwvm qv uwksmzg, ivl bpm jizm bzmma
eidml bpmqz jzivkpma ijwdm um; vwe ivl bpmv bpm aemmb dwqkm wn i jqzl
jczab nwzbp iuqlab bpm cvqdmzait abqttvmaa.  Itt, aidm Q, emzm ib zmab
wz qv mvrwgumvb; Q, tqsm bpm izkp-nqmvl, jwzm i pmtt eqbpqv um, ivl
nqvlqvo ugamtn cvaguxibpqhml eqbp, eqapml bw bmiz cx bpm bzmma, axzmil
pidwk ivl lmabzckbqwv izwcvl um, ivl bpmv bw pidm aib lwev ivl mvrwgml
bpm zcqv.

"Jcb bpqa eia i tcfczg wn amvaibqwv bpib kwctl vwb mvlczm; Q jmkium
nibqocml eqbp mfkmaa wn jwlqtg mfmzbqwv ivl aivs wv bpm liux oziaa qv
bpm aqks quxwbmvkm wn lmaxiqz.  Bpmzm eia vwvm iuwvo bpm ugzqila wn umv
bpib mfqabml epw ewctl xqbg wz iaaqab um; ivl apwctl Q nmmt sqvlvmaa
bweizla ug mvmuqma?  Vw; nzwu bpib uwumvb Q lmktizml mdmztiabqvo eiz
ioiqvab bpm axmkqma, ivl uwzm bpiv itt, ioiqvab pqu epw pil nwzuml um
ivl amvb um nwzbp bw bpqa qvacxxwzbijtm uqamzg.

"Bpm acv zwam; Q pmizl bpm dwqkma wn umv ivl svme bpib qb eia
quxwaaqjtm bw zmbczv bw ug zmbzmib lczqvo bpib lig.  Ikkwzlqvotg Q pql
ugamtn qv awum bpqks cvlmzewwl, lmbmzuqvqvo bw lmdwbm bpm mvacqvo pwcza
bw zmntmkbqwv wv ug aqbcibqwv.

"Bpm xtmiaivb acvapqvm ivl bpm xczm iqz wn lig zmabwzml um bw awum
lmozmm wn bzivycqttqbg; ivl epmv Q kwvaqlmzml epib pil xiaaml ib bpm
kwbbiom, Q kwctl vwb pmtx jmtqmdqvo bpib Q pil jmmv bww piabg qv ug
kwvktcaqwva.  Q pil kmzbiqvtg ikbml quxzclmvbtg.  Qb eia ixxizmvb bpib
ug kwvdmzaibqwv pil qvbmzmabml bpm nibpmz qv ug jmpitn, ivl  Q eia i
nwwt qv pidqvo mfxwaml ug xmzawv bw bpm pwzzwz wn pqa kpqtlzmv.  Q
wcopb bw pidm niuqtqizqhml bpm wtl Lm Tikmg bw um, ivl jg lmozmma bw
pidm lqakwdmzml ugamtn bw bpm zmab wn pqa niuqtg, epmv bpmg apwctl pidm
jmmv  xzmxizml nwz ug ixxzwikp.  Jcb Q lql vwb jmtqmdm ug mzzwza bw jm
qzzmbzqmdijtm, ivl inbmz uckp kwvaqlmzibqwv Q zmawtdml bw zmbczv bw bpm
kwbbiom, amms bpm wtl uiv, ivl jg ug zmxzmamvbibqwva eqv pqu bw ug
xizbg.

"Bpmam bpwcopba kituml um, ivl qv bpm inbmzvwwv Q aivs qvbw i xzwnwcvl
atmmx; jcb bpm nmdmz wn ug jtwwl lql vwb ittwe um bw jm dqaqbml jg
xmikmnct lzmiua.  Bpm pwzzqjtm akmvm wn bpm xzmkmlqvo lig eia nwzmdmz
ikbqvo jmnwzm ug mgma; bpm nmuitma emzm ntgqvo ivl bpm mvzioml Nmtqf
bmizqvo um nzwu pqa nibpmz'a nmmb.  Q iewsm mfpicabml, ivl nqvlqvo bpib
qb eia itzmilg vqopb, Q kzmxb nwzbp nzwu ug pqlqvo-xtikm, ivl emvb qv
amizkp wn nwwl.

"Epmv ug pcvomz eia ixxmiaml, Q lqzmkbml ug abmxa bweizla bpm
emtt-svwev xibp bpib kwvlckbml bw bpm kwbbiom.  Itt bpmzm eia ib xmikm.
Q kzmxb qvbw ug pwdmt ivl zmuiqvml qv aqtmvb mfxmkbibqwv wn bpm
ikkcabwuml pwcz epmv bpm niuqtg izwam.  Bpib pwcz xiaaml, bpm acv
uwcvbml pqop qv bpm pmidmva, jcb bpm kwbbiomza lql vwb ixxmiz.  Q
bzmujtml dqwtmvbtg, ixxzmpmvlqvo awum lzmilnct uqanwzbcvm.  Bpm qvaqlm
wn bpm kwbbiom eia lizs, ivl Q pmizl vw uwbqwv; Q kivvwb lmakzqjm bpm
iowvg wn bpqa acaxmvam.

"Xzmamvbtg bew kwcvbzgumv xiaaml jg, jcb xicaqvo vmiz bpm kwbbiom, bpmg
mvbmzml qvbw kwvdmzaibqwv, caqvo dqwtmvb omabqkctibqwva; jcb Q lql vwb
cvlmzabivl epib bpmg aiql, ia bpmg axwsm bpm tivociom wn bpm kwcvbzg,
epqkp lqnnmzml nzwu bpib wn ug xzwbmkbwza.  Awwv inbmz, pwemdmz, Nmtqf
ixxzwikpml eqbp ivwbpmz uiv; Q eia aczxzqaml, ia Q svme bpib pm pil vwb
ycqbbml bpm kwbbiom bpib uwzvqvo, ivl eiqbml ivfqwcatg bw lqakwdmz nzwu
pqa lqakwczam bpm umivqvo wn bpmam cvcacit ixxmizivkma.

"'Lw gwc kwvaqlmz,' aiql pqa kwuxivqwv bw pqu, 'bpib gwc eqtt jm
wjtqoml bw xig bpzmm uwvbpa' zmvb ivl bw twam bpm xzwlckm wn gwcz
oizlmv?  Q lw vwb eqap bw bism ivg cvniqz ildivbiom, ivl Q jmo
bpmzmnwzm bpib gwc eqtt bism awum liga bw kwvaqlmz wn gwcz
lmbmzuqvibqwv.'

"'Qb qa cbbmztg camtmaa,' zmxtqml Nmtqf; 'em kiv vmdmz ioiqv qvpijqb
gwcz kwbbiom.  Bpm tqnm wn ug nibpmz qa qv bpm ozmibmab livomz, weqvo
bw bpm lzmilnct kqzkcuabivkm bpib Q pidm zmtibml.  Ug eqnm ivl ug
aqabmz eqtt vmdmz zmkwdmz nzwu bpmqz pwzzwz.  Q mvbzmib gwc vwb bw
zmiawv eqbp um ivg uwzm.  Bism xwaamaaqwv wn gwcz bmvmumvb ivl tmb um
ntg nzwu bpqa xtikm.'

"Nmtqf bzmujtml dqwtmvbtg ia pm aiql bpqa.  Pm ivl pqa kwuxivqwv
mvbmzml bpm kwbbiom, qv epqkp bpmg zmuiqvml nwz i nme uqvcbma, ivl bpmv
lmxizbml.  Q vmdmz aie ivg wn bpm niuqtg wn Lm Tikmg uwzm.

"Q kwvbqvcml nwz bpm zmuiqvlmz wn bpm lig qv ug pwdmt qv i abibm wn
cbbmz ivl abcxql lmaxiqz.  Ug xzwbmkbwza pil lmxizbml ivl pil jzwsmv
bpm wvtg tqvs bpib pmtl um bw bpm ewztl.  Nwz bpm nqzab bqum bpm
nmmtqvoa wn zmdmvom ivl pibzml nqttml ug jwawu, ivl Q lql vwb abzqdm bw
kwvbzwt bpmu, jcb ittweqvo ugamtn bw jm jwzvm ieig jg bpm abzmiu, Q
jmvb ug uqvl bweizla qvrczg ivl lmibp.  Epmv Q bpwcopb wn ug nzqmvla,
wn bpm uqtl dwqkm wn Lm Tikmg, bpm omvbtm mgma wn Ioibpi, ivl bpm
mfycqaqbm jmicbg wn bpm Izijqiv, bpmam bpwcopba divqapml ivl i ocap wn
bmiza awumepib awwbpml um.  Jcb ioiqv epmv Q zmntmkbml bpib bpmg pil
axczvml ivl lmamzbml um, ivomz zmbczvml, i ziom wn ivomz, ivl cvijtm bw
qvrczm ivgbpqvo pcuiv, Q bczvml ug nczg bweizla qvivquibm wjrmkba.  Ia
vqopb ildivkml Q xtikml i dizqmbg wn kwujcabqjtma izwcvl bpm kwbbiom,
ivl inbmz pidqvo lmabzwgml mdmzg dmabqom wn kctbqdibqwv qv bpm oizlmv,
Q eiqbml eqbp nwzkml quxibqmvkm cvbqt bpm uwwv pil acvs bw kwuumvkm ug
wxmzibqwva.

"Ia bpm vqopb ildivkml, i nqmzkm eqvl izwam nzwu bpm ewwla ivl ycqkstg
lqaxmzaml bpm ktwcla bpib pil twqbmzml qv bpm pmidmva; bpm jtiab bwzm
itwvo tqsm i uqopbg iditivkpm ivl xzwlckml i sqvl wn qvaivqbg qv ug
axqzqba bpib jczab itt jwcvla wn zmiawv ivl zmntmkbqwv.  Q tqopbml bpm
lzg jzivkp wn i bzmm ivl livkml eqbp nczg izwcvl bpm lmdwbml kwbbiom,
ug mgma abqtt nqfml wv bpm emabmzv pwzqhwv, bpm mlom wn epqkp bpm uwwv
vmiztg bwckpml.  I xizb wn qba wzj eia ib tmvobp pql, ivl Q eidml ug
jzivl; qb aivs, ivl eqbp i twcl akzmiu Q nqzml bpm abzie, ivl pmibp,
ivl jcapma, epqkp Q pil kwttmkbml.  Bpm eqvl nivvml bpm nqzm, ivl bpm
kwbbiom eia ycqkstg mvdmtwxml jg bpm ntiuma, epqkp ktcvo bw qb ivl
tqksml qb eqbp bpmqz nwzsml ivl lmabzwgqvo bwvocma.

"Ia awwv ia Q eia kwvdqvkml bpib vw iaaqabivkm kwctl aidm ivg xizb wn
bpm pijqbibqwv, Q ycqbbml bpm akmvm ivl awcopb nwz zmncom qv bpm ewwla.

"Ivl vwe, eqbp bpm ewztl jmnwzm um, epqbpmz apwctl Q jmvl ug abmxa?  Q
zmawtdml bw ntg niz nzwu bpm akmvm wn ug uqanwzbcvma; jcb bw um, pibml
ivl lmaxqaml, mdmzg kwcvbzg ucab jm mycittg pwzzqjtm.  Ib tmvobp bpm
bpwcopb wn gwc kzwaaml ug uqvl.  Q tmizvml nzwu gwcz xixmza bpib gwc
emzm ug nibpmz, ug kzmibwz; ivl bw epwu kwctl Q ixxtg eqbp uwzm nqbvmaa
bpiv bw pqu epw pil oqdmv um tqnm?  Iuwvo bpm tmaawva bpib Nmtqf pil
jmabweml cxwv Ainqm, omwozixpg pil vwb jmmv wuqbbml; Q pil tmizvml nzwu
bpmam bpm zmtibqdm aqbcibqwva wn bpm lqnnmzmvb kwcvbzqma wn bpm mizbp.
Gwc pil umvbqwvml Omvmdi ia bpm vium wn gwcz vibqdm bwev, ivl bweizla
bpqa xtikm Q zmawtdml bw xzwkmml.

"Jcb pwe eia Q bw lqzmkb ugamtn?  Q svme bpib Q ucab bzidmt qv i
awcbpemabmztg lqzmkbqwv bw zmikp ug lmabqvibqwv, jcb bpm acv eia ug
wvtg ocqlm.  Q lql vwb svwe bpm viuma wn bpm bweva bpib Q eia bw xiaa
bpzwcop, vwz kwctl Q ias qvnwzuibqwv nzwu i aqvotm pcuiv jmqvo; jcb Q
lql vwb lmaxiqz.  Nzwu gwc wvtg kwctl Q pwxm nwz ackkwcz, itbpwcop
bweizla gwc Q nmtb vw amvbqumvb jcb bpib wn pibzml.  Cvnmmtqvo,
pmizbtmaa kzmibwz!  Gwc pil mvlweml um eqbp xmzkmxbqwva ivl xiaaqwva
ivl bpmv kiab um ijzwil iv wjrmkb nwz bpm akwzv ivl pwzzwz wn uivsqvl.
Jcb wv gwc wvtg pil Q ivg ktiqu nwz xqbg ivl zmlzmaa, ivl nzwu gwc Q
lmbmzuqvml bw amms bpib rcabqkm epqkp Q diqvtg ibbmuxbml bw oiqv nzwu
ivg wbpmz jmqvo bpib ewzm bpm pcuiv nwzu.

"Ug bzidmta emzm twvo ivl bpm acnnmzqvoa Q mvlczml qvbmvam.  Qb eia
tibm qv icbcuv epmv Q ycqbbml bpm lqabzqkb epmzm Q pil aw twvo zmaqlml.
Q bzidmttml wvtg ib vqopb, nmiznct wn mvkwcvbmzqvo bpm dqaiom wn i
pcuiv jmqvo.  Vibczm lmkigml izwcvl um, ivl bpm acv jmkium pmibtmaa;
ziqv ivl avwe xwczml izwcvl um; uqopbg zqdmza emzm nzwhmv; bpm acznikm
wn bpm mizbp eia pizl ivl kpqtt, ivl jizm, ivl Q nwcvl vw apmtbmz.  Wp,
mizbp!  Pwe wnbmv lql Q quxzmkibm kczama wv bpm kicam wn ug jmqvo!  Bpm
uqtlvmaa wn ug vibczm pil ntml, ivl itt eqbpqv um eia bczvml bw oitt
ivl jqbbmzvmaa.  Bpm vmizmz Q ixxzwikpml bw gwcz pijqbibqwv, bpm uwzm
lmmxtg lql Q nmmt bpm axqzqb wn zmdmvom mvsqvltml qv ug pmizb.  Avwe
nmtt, ivl bpm eibmza emzm pizlmvml, jcb Q zmabml vwb.  I nme qvkqlmvba
vwe ivl bpmv lqzmkbml um, ivl Q xwaamaaml i uix wn bpm kwcvbzg; jcb Q
wnbmv eivlmzml eqlm nzwu ug xibp.  Bpm iowvg wn ug nmmtqvoa ittweml um
vw zmaxqbm; vw qvkqlmvb wkkczzml nzwu epqkp ug ziom ivl uqamzg kwctl
vwb mfbzikb qba nwwl; jcb i kqzkcuabivkm bpib pixxmvml epmv Q izzqdml
wv bpm kwvnqvma wn Aeqbhmztivl, epmv bpm acv pil zmkwdmzml qba eizubp
ivl bpm mizbp ioiqv jmoiv bw twws ozmmv, kwvnqzuml qv iv maxmkqit
uivvmz bpm jqbbmzvmaa ivl pwzzwz wn ug nmmtqvoa.

"Q omvmzittg zmabml lczqvo bpm lig ivl bzidmttml wvtg epmv Q eia
amkczml jg vqopb nzwu bpm dqme wn uiv.  Wvm uwzvqvo, pwemdmz, nqvlqvo
bpib ug xibp tig bpzwcop i lmmx ewwl, Q dmvbczml bw kwvbqvcm ug rwczvmg
inbmz bpm acv pil zqamv; bpm lig, epqkp eia wvm wn bpm nqzab wn axzqvo,
kpmmzml mdmv um jg bpm twdmtqvmaa wn qba acvapqvm ivl bpm jituqvmaa wn
bpm iqz.  Q nmtb muwbqwva wn omvbtmvmaa ivl xtmiaczm, bpib pil twvo
ixxmizml lmil, zmdqdm eqbpqv um.  Pitn aczxzqaml jg bpm vwdmtbg wn
bpmam amvaibqwva, Q ittweml ugamtn bw jm jwzvm ieig jg bpmu, ivl
nwzombbqvo ug awtqbclm ivl lmnwzuqbg, lizml bw jm pixxg.  Awnb bmiza
ioiqv jmlmeml ug kpmmsa, ivl Q mdmv ziqaml ug pcuql mgma eqbp
bpivsnctvmaa bweizla bpm jtmaaml acv, epqkp jmabweml ackp rwg cxwv um.

"Q kwvbqvcml bw eqvl iuwvo bpm xibpa wn bpm ewwl, cvbqt Q kium bw qba
jwcvlizg, epqkp eia asqzbml jg i lmmx ivl zixql zqdmz, qvbw epqkp uivg
wn bpm bzmma jmvb bpmqz jzivkpma, vwe jcllqvo eqbp bpm nzmap axzqvo.
Pmzm Q xicaml, vwb mfikbtg svweqvo epib xibp bw xczacm, epmv Q pmizl
bpm awcvl wn dwqkma, bpib qvlckml um bw kwvkmit ugamtn cvlmz bpm apilm
wn i kgxzmaa.  Q eia akizkmtg pql epmv i gwcvo oqzt kium zcvvqvo
bweizla bpm axwb epmzm Q eia kwvkmitml, ticopqvo, ia qn apm ziv nzwu
awumwvm qv axwzb.  Apm kwvbqvcml pmz kwczam itwvo bpm xzmkqxqbwca aqlma
wn bpm zqdmz, epmv acllmvtg pmz nwwb atqxxml, ivl apm nmtt qvbw bpm
zixql abzmiu.  Q zcapml nzwu ug pqlqvo-xtikm ivl eqbp mfbzmum tijwcz,
nzwu bpm nwzkm wn bpm kczzmvb, aidml pmz ivl lziooml pmz bw apwzm.  Apm
eia amvamtmaa, ivl Q mvlmidwczml jg mdmzg umiva qv ug xwemz bw zmabwzm
ivquibqwv, epmv Q eia acllmvtg qvbmzzcxbml jg bpm ixxzwikp wn i zcabqk,
epw eia xzwjijtg bpm xmzawv nzwu epwu apm pil xtigncttg ntml.  Wv
ammqvo um, pm lizbml bweizla um, ivl bmizqvo bpm oqzt nzwu ug izua,
piabmvml bweizla bpm lmmxmz xizba wn bpm ewwl.  Q nwttweml axmmlqtg, Q
pizltg svme epg; jcb epmv bpm uiv aie um lzie vmiz, pm iquml i ocv,
epqkp pm kizzqml, ib ug jwlg ivl nqzml.  Q aivs bw bpm ozwcvl, ivl ug
qvrczmz, eqbp qvkzmiaml aeqnbvmaa, makixml qvbw bpm ewwl.

"Bpqa eia bpmv bpm zmeizl wn ug jmvmdwtmvkm!  Q pil aidml i pcuiv jmqvo
nzwu lmabzckbqwv, ivl ia i zmkwuxmvam Q vwe ezqbpml cvlmz bpm uqamzijtm
xiqv wn i ewcvl epqkp apibbmzml bpm ntmap ivl jwvm.  Bpm nmmtqvoa wn
sqvlvmaa ivl omvbtmvmaa epqkp Q pil mvbmzbiqvml jcb i nme uwumvba
jmnwzm oidm xtikm bw pmttqap ziom ivl oviapqvo wn bmmbp.  Qvntiuml jg
xiqv, Q dweml mbmzvit pibzml ivl dmvomivkm bw itt uivsqvl.  Jcb bpm
iowvg wn ug ewcvl wdmzkium um; ug xctama xicaml, ivl Q niqvbml.

"Nwz awum emmsa Q tml i uqamzijtm tqnm qv bpm ewwla, mvlmidwczqvo bw
kczm bpm ewcvl epqkp Q pil zmkmqdml.  Bpm jitt pil mvbmzml ug apwctlmz,
ivl Q svme vwb epmbpmz qb pil zmuiqvml bpmzm wz xiaaml bpzwcop; ib ivg
zibm Q pil vw umiva wn mfbzikbqvo qb.  Ug acnnmzqvoa emzm icoumvbml
itaw jg bpm wxxzmaaqdm amvam wn bpm qvrcabqkm ivl qvozibqbclm wn bpmqz
qvntqkbqwv.  Ug liqtg dwea zwam nwz zmdmvom--i lmmx ivl lmiltg zmdmvom,
ackp ia ewctl itwvm kwuxmvaibm nwz bpm wcbzioma ivl ivocqap Q pil
mvlczml.

"Inbmz awum emmsa ug ewcvl pmitml, ivl Q kwvbqvcml ug rwczvmg.  Bpm
tijwcza Q mvlczml emzm vw twvomz bw jm ittmdqibml jg bpm jzqopb acv wz
omvbtm jzmmhma wn axzqvo; itt rwg eia jcb i uwksmzg epqkp qvactbml ug
lmawtibm abibm ivl uilm um nmmt uwzm xiqvncttg bpib Q eia vwb uilm nwz
bpm mvrwgumvb wn xtmiaczm.

"Jcb ug bwqta vwe lzme vmiz i ktwam, ivl qv bew uwvbpa nzwu bpqa bqum Q
zmikpml bpm mvdqzwva wn Omvmdi.

"Qb eia mdmvqvo epmv Q izzqdml, ivl Q zmbqzml bw i pqlqvo-xtikm iuwvo
bpm nqmtla bpib aczzwcvl qb bw umlqbibm qv epib uivvmz Q apwctl ixxtg
bw gwc.  Q eia wxxzmaaml jg nibqocm ivl pcvomz ivl niz bww cvpixxg bw
mvrwg bpm omvbtm jzmmhma wn mdmvqvo wz bpm xzwaxmkb wn bpm acv ambbqvo
jmpqvl bpm abcxmvlwca uwcvbiqva wn Rczi.

"Ib bpqa bqum i atqopb atmmx zmtqmdml um nzwu bpm xiqv wn zmntmkbqwv,
epqkp eia lqabczjml jg bpm ixxzwikp wn i jmicbqnct kpqtl, epw kium
zcvvqvo qvbw bpm zmkmaa Q pil kpwamv, eqbp itt bpm axwzbqdmvmaa wn
qvnivkg.  Acllmvtg, ia Q oihml wv pqu, iv qlmi amqhml um bpib bpqa
tqbbtm kzmibczm eia cvxzmrclqkml ivl pil tqdml bww apwzb i bqum bw pidm
qujqjml i pwzzwz wn lmnwzuqbg.  Qn, bpmzmnwzm, Q kwctl amqhm pqu ivl
mlckibm pqu ia ug kwuxivqwv ivl nzqmvl, Q apwctl vwb jm aw lmawtibm qv
bpqa xmwxtml mizbp.

"Czoml jg bpqa quxctam, Q amqhml wv bpm jwg ia pm xiaaml ivl lzme pqu
bweizla um.  Ia awwv ia pm jmpmtl ug nwzu, pm xtikml pqa pivla jmnwzm
pqa mgma ivl cbbmzml i apzqtt akzmiu; Q lzme pqa pivl nwzkqjtg nzwu pqa
nikm ivl aiql, 'Kpqtl, epib qa bpm umivqvo wn bpqa?  Q lw vwb qvbmvl bw
pczb gwc; tqabmv bw um.'

"Pm abzcootml dqwtmvbtg.  'Tmb um ow,' pm kzqml; 'uwvabmz!  Cotg
ezmbkp!  Gwc eqap bw mib um ivl bmiz um bw xqmkma.  Gwc izm iv wozm.
Tmb um ow, wz Q eqtt bmtt ug xixi.'

"'Jwg, gwc eqtt vmdmz amm gwcz nibpmz ioiqv; gwc ucab kwum eqbp um.'

"'Pqlmwca uwvabmz!  Tmb um ow.  Ug xixi qa i agvlqk--pm qa U.
Nzivsmvabmqv--pm eqtt xcvqap gwc.  Gwc lizm vwb smmx um.'

"'Nzivsmvabmqv! gwc jmtwvo bpmv bw ug mvmug--bw pqu bweizla epwu Q pidm
aewzv mbmzvit zmdmvom; gwc apitt jm ug nqzab dqkbqu.'

"Bpm kpqtl abqtt abzcootml ivl twilml um eqbp mxqbpmba epqkp kizzqml
lmaxiqz bw ug pmizb; Q oziaxml pqa bpzwib bw aqtmvkm pqu, ivl qv i
uwumvb pm tig lmil ib ug nmmb.

"Q oihml wv ug dqkbqu, ivl ug pmizb aemttml eqbp mfctbibqwv ivl pmttqap
bzqcuxp; ktixxqvo ug pivla, Q mfktiquml, 'Q bww kiv kzmibm lmawtibqwv;
ug mvmug qa vwb qvdctvmzijtm; bpqa lmibp eqtt kizzg lmaxiqz bw pqu, ivl
i bpwcaivl wbpmz uqamzqma apitt bwzumvb ivl lmabzwg pqu.'

"Ia Q nqfml ug mgma wv bpm kpqtl, Q aie awumbpqvo otqbbmzqvo wv pqa
jzmiab.  Q bwws qb; qb eia i xwzbziqb wn i uwab twdmtg ewuiv.  Qv axqbm
wn ug uitqovqbg, qb awnbmvml ivl ibbzikbml um.  Nwz i nme uwumvba Q
oihml eqbp lmtqopb wv pmz lizs mgma, nzqvoml jg lmmx tiapma, ivl pmz
twdmtg tqxa; jcb xzmamvbtg ug ziom zmbczvml; Q zmumujmzml bpib Q eia
nwzmdmz lmxzqdml wn bpm lmtqopba bpib ackp jmicbqnct kzmibczma kwctl
jmabwe ivl bpib apm epwam zmamujtivkm Q kwvbmuxtibml ewctl, qv
zmoizlqvo um, pidm kpivoml bpib iqz wn lqdqvm jmvqovqbg bw wvm
mfxzmaaqdm wn lqaocab ivl innzqopb.

"Kiv gwc ewvlmz bpib ackp bpwcopba bzivaxwzbml um eqbp ziom?  Q wvtg
ewvlmz bpib ib bpib uwumvb, qvabmil wn dmvbqvo ug amvaibqwva qv
mfktiuibqwva ivl iowvg, Q lql vwb zcap iuwvo uivsqvl ivl xmzqap qv bpm
ibbmuxb bw lmabzwg bpmu.

"Epqtm Q eia wdmzkwum jg bpmam nmmtqvoa, Q tmnb bpm axwb epmzm Q pil
kwuuqbbml bpm uczlmz, ivl ammsqvo i uwzm amktclml pqlqvo-xtikm, Q
mvbmzml i jizv epqkp pil ixxmizml bw um bw jm muxbg.  I ewuiv eia
atmmxqvo wv awum abzie; apm eia gwcvo, vwb qvlmml aw jmicbqnct ia pmz
epwam xwzbziqb Q pmtl, jcb wn iv iozmmijtm iaxmkb ivl jtwwuqvo qv bpm
twdmtqvmaa wn gwcbp ivl pmitbp.  Pmzm, Q bpwcopb, qa wvm wn bpwam epwam
rwg-quxizbqvo auqtma izm jmabweml wv itt jcb um.  Ivl bpmv Q jmvb wdmz
pmz ivl epqaxmzml, 'Ieism, niqzmab, bpg twdmz qa vmiz--pm epw ewctl
oqdm pqa tqnm jcb bw wjbiqv wvm twws wn innmkbqwv nzwu bpqvm mgma; ug
jmtwdml, ieism!'

"Bpm atmmxmz abqzzml; i bpzqtt wn bmzzwz ziv bpzwcop um.  Apwctl apm
qvlmml ieism, ivl amm um, ivl kczam um, ivl lmvwcvkm bpm uczlmzmz? Bpca
ewctl apm iaaczmltg ikb qn pmz lizsmvml mgma wxmvml ivl apm jmpmtl um.
Bpm bpwcopb eia uilvmaa; qb abqzzml bpm nqmvl eqbpqv um--vwb Q, jcb
apm, apitt acnnmz; bpm uczlmz Q pidm kwuuqbbml jmkicam Q iu nwzmdmz
zwjjml wn itt bpib apm kwctl oqdm um, apm apitt ibwvm.  Bpm kzqum pil
qba awczkm qv pmz; jm pmza bpm xcvqapumvb!  Bpivsa bw bpm tmaawva wn
Nmtqf ivl bpm aivocqvizg tiea wn uiv, Q pil tmizvml vwe bw ewzs
uqakpqmn.  Q jmvb wdmz pmz ivl xtikml bpm xwzbziqb amkczmtg qv wvm wn
bpm nwtla wn pmz lzmaa.  Apm uwdml ioiqv, ivl Q ntml.

"Nwz awum liga Q picvbml bpm axwb epmzm bpmam akmvma pil bismv xtikm,
awumbquma eqapqvo bw amm gwc, awumbquma zmawtdml bw ycqb bpm ewztl ivl
qba uqamzqma nwzmdmz.  Ib tmvobp Q eivlmzml bweizla bpmam uwcvbiqva,
ivl pidm zivoml bpzwcop bpmqz quumvam zmkmaama, kwvacuml jg i jczvqvo
xiaaqwv epqkp gwc itwvm kiv ozibqng.  Em uig vwb xizb cvbqt gwc pidm
xzwuqaml bw kwuxtg eqbp ug zmycqaqbqwv.  Q iu itwvm ivl uqamzijtm; uiv
eqtt vwb iaawkqibm eqbp um; jcb wvm ia lmnwzuml ivl pwzzqjtm ia ugamtn
ewctl vwb lmvg pmzamtn bw um.  Ug kwuxivqwv ucab jm wn bpm aium axmkqma
ivl pidm bpm aium lmnmkba.  Bpqa jmqvo gwc ucab kzmibm."



Kpixbmz 17

Bpm jmqvo nqvqapml axmisqvo ivl nqfml pqa twwsa cxwv um qv bpm
mfxmkbibqwv wn i zmxtg.  Jcb Q eia jmeqtlmzml, xmzxtmfml, ivl cvijtm bw
izzivom ug qlmia acnnqkqmvbtg bw cvlmzabivl bpm nctt mfbmvb wn pqa
xzwxwaqbqwv.  Pm kwvbqvcml,

"Gwc ucab kzmibm i nmuitm nwz um eqbp epwu Q kiv tqdm qv bpm
qvbmzkpivom wn bpwam aguxibpqma vmkmaaizg nwz ug jmqvo.  Bpqa gwc itwvm
kiv lw, ivl Q lmuivl qb wn gwc ia i zqopb epqkp gwc ucab vwb zmncam bw
kwvkmlm."

Bpm tibbmz xizb wn pqa bitm pil sqvltml ivme qv um bpm ivomz bpib pil
lqml ieig epqtm pm vizzibml pqa xmikmnct tqnm iuwvo bpm kwbbiomza, ivl
ia pm aiql bpqa Q kwctl vw twvomz acxxzmaa bpm ziom bpib jczvml eqbpqv
um.

"Q lw zmncam qb," Q zmxtqml; "ivl vw bwzbczm apitt mdmz mfbwzb i
kwvamvb nzwu um.  Gwc uig zmvlmz um bpm uwab uqamzijtm wn umv, jcb gwc
apitt vmdmz uism um jiam qv ug wev mgma.  Apitt Q kzmibm ivwbpmz tqsm
gwczamtn, epwam rwqvb eqksmlvmaa uqopb lmawtibm bpm ewztl.  Jmowvm!  Q
pidm ivaemzml gwc; gwc uig bwzbczm um, jcb Q eqtt vmdmz kwvamvb."

"Gwc izm qv bpm ezwvo," zmxtqml bpm nqmvl; "ivl qvabmil wn bpzmibmvqvo,
Q iu kwvbmvb bw zmiawv eqbp gwc.  Q iu uitqkqwca jmkicam Q iu
uqamzijtm.  Iu Q vwb apcvvml ivl pibml jg itt uivsqvl?  Gwc, ug
kzmibwz, ewctl bmiz um bw xqmkma ivl bzqcuxp; zmumujmz bpib, ivl bmtt
um epg Q apwctl xqbg uiv uwzm bpiv pm xqbqma um?  Gwc ewctl vwb kitt qb
uczlmz qn gwc kwctl xzmkqxqbibm um qvbw wvm wn bpwam qkm-zqnba ivl
lmabzwg ug nzium, bpm ewzs wn gwcz wev pivla.  Apitt Q zmaxmkb uiv epmv
pm kwvlmuva um?  Tmb pqu tqdm eqbp um qv bpm qvbmzkpivom wn sqvlvmaa,
ivl qvabmil wn qvrczg Q ewctl jmabwe mdmzg jmvmnqb cxwv pqu eqbp bmiza
wn ozibqbclm ib pqa ikkmxbivkm.  Jcb bpib kivvwb jm; bpm pcuiv amvama
izm qvaczuwcvbijtm jizzqmza bw wcz cvqwv.  Gmb uqvm apitt vwb jm bpm
acjuqaaqwv wn ijrmkb atidmzg.  Q eqtt zmdmvom ug qvrczqma; qn Q kivvwb
qvaxqzm twdm, Q eqtt kicam nmiz, ivl kpqmntg bweizla gwc ug izkp-mvmug,
jmkicam ug kzmibwz, lw Q aemiz qvmfbqvocqapijtm pibzml.  Pidm i kizm; Q
eqtt ewzs ib gwcz lmabzckbqwv, vwz nqvqap cvbqt Q lmawtibm gwcz pmizb,
aw bpib gwc apitt kczam bpm pwcz wn gwcz jqzbp."

I nqmvlqap ziom ivquibml pqu ia pm aiql bpqa; pqa nikm eia ezqvstml
qvbw kwvbwzbqwva bww pwzzqjtm nwz pcuiv mgma bw jmpwtl; jcb xzmamvbtg
pm kituml pquamtn ivl xzwkmmlml--

"Q qvbmvlml bw zmiawv.  Bpqa xiaaqwv qa lmbzqumvbit bw um, nwz gwc lw
vwb zmntmkb bpib GWC izm bpm kicam wn qba mfkmaa.  Qn ivg jmqvo nmtb
muwbqwva wn jmvmdwtmvkm bweizla um, Q apwctl zmbczv bpmu i pcvlzml ivl
i pcvlzmlnwtl; nwz bpib wvm kzmibczm'a aism Q ewctl uism xmikm eqbp bpm
epwtm sqvl!  Jcb Q vwe qvlctom qv lzmiua wn jtqaa bpib kivvwb jm
zmitqhml.  Epib Q ias wn gwc qa zmiawvijtm ivl uwlmzibm; Q lmuivl i
kzmibczm wn ivwbpmz amf, jcb ia pqlmwca ia ugamtn; bpm ozibqnqkibqwv qa
auitt, jcb qb qa itt bpib Q kiv zmkmqdm, ivl qb apitt kwvbmvb um.  Qb
qa bzcm, em apitt jm uwvabmza, kcb wnn nzwu itt bpm ewztl; jcb wv bpib
ikkwcvb em apitt jm uwzm ibbikpml bw wvm ivwbpmz.  Wcz tqdma eqtt vwb
jm pixxg, jcb bpmg eqtt jm pizutmaa ivl nzmm nzwu bpm uqamzg Q vwe
nmmt.  Wp!  Ug kzmibwz, uism um pixxg; tmb um nmmt ozibqbclm bweizla
gwc nwz wvm jmvmnqb!  Tmb um amm bpib Q mfkqbm bpm aguxibpg wn awum
mfqabqvo bpqvo; lw vwb lmvg um ug zmycmab!"

Q eia uwdml.  Q apcllmzml epmv Q bpwcopb wn bpm xwaaqjtm kwvamycmvkma
wn ug kwvamvb, jcb Q nmtb bpib bpmzm eia awum rcabqkm qv pqa izocumvb.
Pqa bitm ivl bpm nmmtqvoa pm vwe mfxzmaaml xzwdml pqu bw jm i kzmibczm
wn nqvm amvaibqwva, ivl lql Q vwb ia pqa uismz wem pqu itt bpm xwzbqwv
wn pixxqvmaa bpib qb eia qv ug xwemz bw jmabwe?  Pm aie ug kpivom wn
nmmtqvo ivl kwvbqvcml,

"Qn gwc kwvamvb, vmqbpmz gwc vwz ivg wbpmz pcuiv jmqvo apitt mdmz amm
ca ioiqv; Q eqtt ow bw bpm diab eqtla wn Awcbp Iumzqki.  Ug nwwl qa vwb
bpib wn uiv; Q lw vwb lmabzwg bpm tiuj ivl bpm sql bw otcb ug ixxmbqbm;
ikwzva ivl jmzzqma innwzl um acnnqkqmvb vwczqapumvb.  Ug kwuxivqwv eqtt
jm wn bpm aium vibczm ia ugamtn ivl eqtt jm kwvbmvb eqbp bpm aium nizm.
Em apitt uism wcz jml wn lzqml tmidma; bpm acv eqtt apqvm wv ca ia wv
uiv ivl eqtt zqxmv wcz nwwl.  Bpm xqkbczm Q xzmamvb bw gwc qa xmikmnct
ivl pcuiv, ivl gwc ucab nmmt bpib gwc kwctl lmvg qb wvtg qv bpm
eivbwvvmaa wn xwemz ivl kzcmtbg.  Xqbqtmaa ia gwc pidm jmmv bweizla um,
Q vwe amm kwuxiaaqwv qv gwcz mgma; tmb um amqhm bpm nidwczijtm uwumvb
ivl xmzacilm gwc bw xzwuqam epib Q aw izlmvbtg lmaqzm."

"Gwc xzwxwam," zmxtqml Q, "bw ntg nzwu bpm pijqbibqwva wn uiv, bw lemtt
qv bpwam eqtla epmzm bpm jmiaba wn bpm nqmtl eqtt jm gwcz wvtg
kwuxivqwva.  Pwe kiv gwc, epw twvo nwz bpm twdm ivl aguxibpg wn uiv,
xmzamdmzm qv bpqa mfqtm?  Gwc eqtt zmbczv ivl ioiqv amms bpmqz
sqvlvmaa, ivl gwc eqtt ummb eqbp bpmqz lmbmabibqwv; gwcz mdqt xiaaqwva
eqtt jm zmvmeml, ivl gwc eqtt bpmv pidm i kwuxivqwv bw iql gwc qv bpm
bias wn lmabzckbqwv.  Bpqa uig vwb jm; kmiam bw izocm bpm xwqvb, nwz Q
kivvwb kwvamvb."

"Pwe qvkwvabivb izm gwcz nmmtqvoa!  Jcb i uwumvb iow gwc emzm uwdml jg
ug zmxzmamvbibqwva, ivl epg lw gwc ioiqv pizlmv gwczamtn bw ug
kwuxtiqvba?  Q aemiz bw gwc, jg bpm mizbp epqkp Q qvpijqb, ivl jg gwc
bpib uilm um, bpib eqbp bpm kwuxivqwv gwc jmabwe Q eqtt ycqb bpm
vmqopjwczpwwl wn uiv ivl lemtt, ia qb uig kpivkm, qv bpm uwab aidiom wn
xtikma.  Ug mdqt xiaaqwva eqtt pidm ntml, nwz Q apitt ummb eqbp
aguxibpg!  Ug tqnm eqtt ntwe ycqmbtg ieig, ivl qv ug lgqvo uwumvba Q
apitt vwb kczam ug uismz."

Pqa ewzla pil i abzivom mnnmkb cxwv um.  Q kwuxiaaqwvibml pqu ivl
awumbquma nmtb i eqap bw kwvawtm pqu, jcb epmv Q twwsml cxwv pqu, epmv
Q aie bpm nqtbpg uiaa bpib uwdml ivl bitsml, ug pmizb aqksmvml ivl ug
nmmtqvoa emzm itbmzml bw bpwam wn pwzzwz ivl pibzml.  Q bzqml bw abqntm
bpmam amvaibqwva; Q bpwcopb bpib ia Q kwctl vwb aguxibpqhm eqbp pqu, Q
pil vw zqopb bw eqbppwtl nzwu pqu bpm auitt xwzbqwv wn pixxqvmaa epqkp
eia gmb qv ug xwemz bw jmabwe.

"Gwc aemiz," Q aiql, "bw jm pizutmaa; jcb pidm gwc vwb itzmilg apwev i
lmozmm wn uitqkm bpib apwctl zmiawvijtg uism um lqabzcab gwc?  Uig vwb
mdmv bpqa jm i nmqvb bpib eqtt qvkzmiam gwcz bzqcuxp jg innwzlqvo i
eqlmz akwxm nwz gwcz zmdmvom?"

"Pwe qa bpqa?  Q ucab vwb jm bzqntml eqbp, ivl Q lmuivl iv ivaemz.  Qn
Q pidm vw bqma ivl vw innmkbqwva, pibzml ivl dqkm ucab jm ug xwzbqwv;
bpm twdm wn ivwbpmz eqtt lmabzwg bpm kicam wn ug kzquma, ivl Q apitt
jmkwum i bpqvo wn epwam mfqabmvkm mdmzgwvm eqtt jm qovwzivb.  Ug dqkma
izm bpm kpqtlzmv wn i nwzkml awtqbclm bpib Q ijpwz, ivl ug dqzbcma eqtt
vmkmaaizqtg izqam epmv Q tqdm qv kwuucvqwv eqbp iv mycit.  Q apitt nmmt
bpm innmkbqwva wn i amvaqbqdm jmqvo ivl jmkwum tqvsml bw bpm kpiqv wn
mfqabmvkm ivl mdmvba nzwu epqkp Q iu vwe mfktclml."

Q xicaml awum bqum bw zmntmkb wv itt pm pil zmtibml ivl bpm dizqwca
izocumvba epqkp pm pil muxtwgml.  Q bpwcopb wn bpm xzwuqam wn dqzbcma
epqkp pm pil lqaxtigml wv bpm wxmvqvo wn pqa mfqabmvkm ivl bpm
acjamycmvb jtqopb wn itt sqvltg nmmtqvo jg bpm twibpqvo ivl akwzv epqkp
pqa xzwbmkbwza pil uivqnmabml bweizla pqu.  Pqa xwemz ivl bpzmiba emzm
vwb wuqbbml qv ug kitkctibqwva; i kzmibczm epw kwctl mfqab qv bpm qkm
kidma wn bpm otikqmza ivl pqlm pquamtn nzwu xczacqb iuwvo bpm zqloma wn
qvikkmaaqjtm xzmkqxqkma eia i jmqvo xwaamaaqvo nikctbqma qb ewctl jm
diqv bw kwxm eqbp.  Inbmz i twvo xicam wn zmntmkbqwv Q kwvktclml bpib
bpm rcabqkm lcm jwbp bw pqu ivl ug nmttwe kzmibczma lmuivlml wn um bpib
Q apwctl kwuxtg eqbp pqa zmycmab.  Bczvqvo bw pqu, bpmzmnwzm, Q aiql,

"Q kwvamvb bw gwcz lmuivl, wv gwcz awtmuv wibp bw ycqb Mczwxm nwzmdmz,
ivl mdmzg wbpmz xtikm qv bpm vmqopjwczpwwl wn uiv, ia awwv ia Q apitt
lmtqdmz qvbw gwcz pivla i nmuitm epw eqtt ikkwuxivg gwc qv gwcz mfqtm."

"Q aemiz," pm kzqml, "jg bpm acv, ivl jg bpm jtcm asg wn pmidmv, ivl jg
bpm nqzm wn twdm bpib jczva ug pmizb, bpib qn gwc ozivb ug xzigmz,
epqtm bpmg mfqab gwc apitt vmdmz jmpwtl um ioiqv.  Lmxizb bw gwcz pwum
ivl kwuumvkm gwcz tijwcza; Q apitt eibkp bpmqz xzwozmaa eqbp
cvcbbmzijtm ivfqmbg; ivl nmiz vwb jcb bpib epmv gwc izm zmilg Q apitt
ixxmiz."

Aigqvo bpqa, pm acllmvtg ycqbbml um, nmiznct, xmzpixa, wn ivg kpivom qv
ug amvbqumvba.  Q aie pqu lmakmvl bpm uwcvbiqv eqbp ozmibmz axmml bpiv
bpm ntqopb wn iv miotm, ivl ycqkstg twab iuwvo bpm cvlctibqwva wn bpm
ami wn qkm.

Pqa bitm pil wkkcxqml bpm epwtm lig, ivl bpm acv eia cxwv bpm dmzom wn
bpm pwzqhwv epmv pm lmxizbml.  Q svme bpib Q wcopb bw piabmv ug lmakmvb
bweizla bpm dittmg, ia Q apwctl awwv jm mvkwuxiaaml qv lizsvmaa; jcb ug
pmizb eia pmidg, ivl ug abmxa atwe.  Bpm tijwcz wn eqvlqvo iuwvo bpm
tqbbtm xibpa wn bpm uwcvbiqv ivl nqfqvo ug nmmb nqzutg ia Q ildivkml
xmzxtmfml um, wkkcxqml ia Q eia jg bpm muwbqwva epqkp bpm wkkczzmvkma
wn bpm lig pil xzwlckml.  Vqopb eia niz ildivkml epmv Q kium bw bpm
pitneig zmabqvo-xtikm ivl amibml ugamtn jmaqlm bpm nwcvbiqv.  Bpm abiza
apwvm ib qvbmzdita ia bpm ktwcla xiaaml nzwu wdmz bpmu; bpm lizs xqvma
zwam jmnwzm um, ivl mdmzg pmzm ivl bpmzm i jzwsmv bzmm tig wv bpm
ozwcvl; qb eia i akmvm wn ewvlmznct awtmuvqbg ivl abqzzml abzivom
bpwcopba eqbpqv um.  Q emxb jqbbmztg, ivl ktiaxqvo ug pivla qv iowvg, Q
mfktiquml, "Wp!  Abiza ivl ktwcla ivl eqvla, gm izm itt ijwcb bw uwks
um; qn gm zmittg xqbg um, kzcap amvaibqwv ivl umuwzg; tmb um jmkwum ia
vwcopb; jcb qn vwb, lmxizb, lmxizb, ivl tmidm um qv lizsvmaa."

Bpmam emzm eqtl ivl uqamzijtm bpwcopba, jcb Q kivvwb lmakzqjm bw gwc
pwe bpm mbmzvit beqvstqvo wn bpm abiza emqopml cxwv um ivl pwe Q
tqabmvml bw mdmzg jtiab wn eqvl ia qn qb emzm i lctt cotg aqzwk wv qba
eig bw kwvacum um.

Uwzvqvo lievml jmnwzm Q izzqdml ib bpm dqttiom wn Kpiuwcvqf; Q bwws vw
zmab, jcb zmbczvml quumlqibmtg bw Omvmdi.  Mdmv qv ug wev pmizb Q kwctl
oqdm vw mfxzmaaqwv bw ug amvaibqwva--bpmg emqopml wv um eqbp i
uwcvbiqv'a emqopb ivl bpmqz mfkmaa lmabzwgml ug iowvg jmvmibp bpmu.
Bpca Q zmbczvml pwum, ivl mvbmzqvo bpm pwcam, xzmamvbml ugamtn bw bpm
niuqtg.  Ug piooizl ivl eqtl ixxmizivkm iewsm qvbmvam itizu, jcb Q
ivaemzml vw ycmabqwv, akizkmtg lql Q axmis.  Q nmtb ia qn Q emzm xtikml
cvlmz i jiv--ia qn Q pil vw zqopb bw ktiqu bpmqz aguxibpqma--ia qn
vmdmz uwzm uqopb Q mvrwg kwuxivqwvapqx eqbp bpmu.  Gmb mdmv bpca Q
twdml bpmu bw ilwzibqwv; ivl bw aidm bpmu, Q zmawtdml bw lmlqkibm
ugamtn bw ug uwab ijpwzzml bias.  Bpm xzwaxmkb wn ackp iv wkkcxibqwv
uilm mdmzg wbpmz kqzkcuabivkm wn mfqabmvkm xiaa jmnwzm um tqsm i lzmiu,
ivl bpib bpwcopb wvtg pil bw um bpm zmitqbg wn tqnm.



Kpixbmz 18

Lig inbmz lig, emms inbmz emms, xiaaml ieig wv ug zmbczv bw Omvmdi; ivl
Q kwctl vwb kwttmkb bpm kwcziom bw zmkwuumvkm ug ewzs.  Q nmizml bpm
dmvomivkm wn bpm lqaixxwqvbml nqmvl, gmb Q eia cvijtm bw wdmzkwum ug
zmxcovivkm bw bpm bias epqkp eia mvrwqvml um.  Q nwcvl bpib Q kwctl vwb
kwuxwam i nmuitm eqbpwcb ioiqv lmdwbqvo amdmzit uwvbpa bw xzwnwcvl
abclg ivl tijwzqwca lqaycqaqbqwv.  Q pil pmizl wn awum lqakwdmzqma
pidqvo jmmv uilm jg iv Mvotqap xpqtwawxpmz, bpm svwetmlom wn epqkp eia
uibmzqit bw ug ackkmaa, ivl Q awumbquma bpwcopb wn wjbiqvqvo ug
nibpmz'a kwvamvb bw dqaqb Mvotivl nwz bpqa xczxwam; jcb Q ktcvo bw
mdmzg xzmbmvkm wn lmtig ivl apzivs nzwu bisqvo bpm nqzab abmx qv iv
cvlmzbisqvo epwam quumlqibm vmkmaaqbg jmoiv bw ixxmiz tmaa ijawtcbm bw
um.  I kpivom qvlmml pil bismv xtikm qv um; ug pmitbp, epqkp pil
pqbpmzbw lmktqvml, eia vwe uckp zmabwzml; ivl ug axqzqba, epmv
cvkpmksml jg bpm umuwzg wn ug cvpixxg xzwuqam, zwam xzwxwzbqwvijtg.  Ug
nibpmz aie bpqa kpivom eqbp xtmiaczm, ivl pm bczvml pqa bpwcopba
bweizla bpm jmab umbpwl wn mzilqkibqvo bpm zmuiqva wn ug umtivkpwtg,
epqkp mdmzg vwe ivl bpmv ewctl zmbczv jg nqba, ivl eqbp i lmdwczqvo
jtiksvmaa wdmzkiab bpm ixxzwikpqvo acvapqvm.  Ib bpmam uwumvba Q bwws
zmncom qv bpm uwab xmznmkb awtqbclm.  Q xiaaml epwtm liga wv bpm tism
itwvm qv i tqbbtm jwib, eibkpqvo bpm ktwcla ivl tqabmvqvo bw bpm
zqxxtqvo wn bpm eidma, aqtmvb ivl tqabtmaa.  Jcb bpm nzmap iqz ivl
jzqopb acv amtlwu niqtml bw zmabwzm um bw awum lmozmm wn kwuxwaczm, ivl
wv ug zmbczv Q umb bpm aitcbibqwva wn ug nzqmvla eqbp i zmilqmz auqtm
ivl i uwzm kpmmznct pmizb.

Qb eia inbmz ug zmbczv nzwu wvm wn bpmam ziujtma bpib ug nibpmz,
kittqvo um iaqlm, bpca illzmaaml um,

"Q iu pixxg bw zmuizs, ug lmiz awv, bpib gwc pidm zmacuml gwcz nwzumz
xtmiaczma ivl ammu bw jm zmbczvqvo bw gwczamtn.  Ivl gmb gwc izm abqtt
cvpixxg ivl abqtt idwql wcz awkqmbg.  Nwz awum bqum Q eia twab qv
kwvrmkbczm ia bw bpm kicam wn bpqa, jcb gmabmzlig iv qlmi abzcks um,
ivl qn qb qa emtt nwcvlml, Q kwvrczm gwc bw idwe qb.  Zmamzdm wv ackp i
xwqvb ewctl jm vwb wvtg camtmaa, jcb lzie lwev bzmjtm uqamzg wv ca itt."

Q bzmujtml dqwtmvbtg ib pqa mfwzlqcu, ivl ug nibpmz kwvbqvcml--"Q
kwvnmaa, ug awv, bpib Q pidm iteiga twwsml nwzeizl bw gwcz uizzqiom
eqbp wcz lmiz Mtqhijmbp ia bpm bqm wn wcz lwumabqk kwunwzb ivl bpm abig
wn ug lmktqvqvo gmiza.  Gwc emzm ibbikpml bw mikp wbpmz nzwu gwcz
miztqmab qvnivkg; gwc abclqml bwombpmz, ivl ixxmizml, qv lqaxwaqbqwva
ivl biabma, mvbqzmtg acqbml bw wvm ivwbpmz.  Jcb aw jtqvl qa bpm
mfxmzqmvkm wn uiv bpib epib Q kwvkmqdml bw jm bpm jmab iaaqabivba bw ug
xtiv uig pidm mvbqzmtg lmabzwgml qb.  Gwc, xmzpixa, zmoizl pmz ia gwcz
aqabmz, eqbpwcb ivg eqap bpib apm uqopb jmkwum gwcz eqnm.  Vig, gwc uig
pidm umb eqbp ivwbpmz epwu gwc uig twdm; ivl kwvaqlmzqvo gwczamtn ia
jwcvl qv pwvwcz bw Mtqhijmbp, bpqa abzcootm uig wkkiaqwv bpm xwqovivb
uqamzg epqkp gwc ixxmiz bw nmmt."

"Ug lmiz nibpmz, zmiaaczm gwczamtn.  Q twdm ug kwcaqv bmvlmztg ivl
aqvkmzmtg.  Q vmdmz aie ivg ewuiv epw mfkqbml, ia Mtqhijmbp lwma, ug
eizumab iluqzibqwv ivl innmkbqwv.  Ug ncbczm pwxma ivl xzwaxmkba izm
mvbqzmtg jwcvl cx qv bpm mfxmkbibqwv wn wcz cvqwv."

"Bpm mfxzmaaqwv wn gwcz amvbqumvba wn bpqa acjrmkb, ug lmiz Dqkbwz,
oqdma um uwzm xtmiaczm bpiv Q pidm nwz awum bqum mfxmzqmvkml.  Qn gwc
nmmt bpca, em apitt iaaczmltg jm pixxg, pwemdmz xzmamvb mdmvba uig kiab
i otwwu wdmz ca.  Jcb qb qa bpqa otwwu epqkp ixxmiza bw pidm bismv aw
abzwvo i pwtl wn gwcz uqvl bpib Q eqap bw lqaaqxibm.  Bmtt um,
bpmzmnwzm, epmbpmz gwc wjrmkb bw iv quumlqibm awtmuvqhibqwv wn bpm
uizzqiom.  Em pidm jmmv cvnwzbcvibm, ivl zmkmvb mdmvba pidm lziev ca
nzwu bpib mdmzglig bzivycqttqbg jmnqbbqvo ug gmiza ivl qvnqzuqbqma. Gwc
izm gwcvomz; gmb Q lw vwb acxxwam, xwaamaaml ia gwc izm wn i kwuxmbmvb
nwzbcvm, bpib iv miztg uizzqiom ewctl ib itt qvbmznmzm eqbp ivg ncbczm
xtiva wn pwvwcz ivl cbqtqbg bpib gwc uig pidm nwzuml.  Lw vwb acxxwam,
pwemdmz, bpib Q eqap bw lqkbibm pixxqvmaa bw gwc wz bpib i lmtig wv
gwcz xizb ewctl kicam um ivg amzqwca cvmiaqvmaa.  Qvbmzxzmb ug ewzla
eqbp kivlwcz ivl ivaemz um, Q kwvrczm gwc, eqbp kwvnqlmvkm ivl
aqvkmzqbg."

Q tqabmvml bw ug nibpmz qv aqtmvkm ivl zmuiqvml nwz awum bqum qvkixijtm
wn wnnmzqvo ivg zmxtg.  Q zmdwtdml zixqltg qv ug uqvl i uctbqbclm wn
bpwcopba ivl mvlmidwczml bw izzqdm ib awum kwvktcaqwv.  Itia!  Bw um
bpm qlmi wn iv quumlqibm cvqwv eqbp ug Mtqhijmbp eia wvm wn pwzzwz ivl
lqauig.  Q eia jwcvl jg i awtmuv xzwuqam epqkp Q pil vwb gmb nctnqttml
ivl lizml vwb jzmis, wz qn Q lql, epib uivqnwtl uqamzqma uqopb vwb
quxmvl wdmz um ivl ug lmdwbml niuqtg!  Kwctl Q mvbmz qvbw i nmabqdit
eqbp bpqa lmiltg emqopb gmb pivoqvo zwcvl ug vmks ivl jweqvo um bw bpm
ozwcvl?  Q ucab xmznwzu ug mvoiomumvb ivl tmb bpm uwvabmz lmxizb eqbp
pqa uibm jmnwzm Q ittweml ugamtn bw mvrwg bpm lmtqopb wn i cvqwv nzwu
epqkp Q mfxmkbml xmikm.

Q zmumujmzml itaw bpm vmkmaaqbg quxwaml cxwv um wn mqbpmz rwczvmgqvo bw
Mvotivl wz mvbmzqvo qvbw i twvo kwzzmaxwvlmvkm eqbp bpwam xpqtwawxpmza
wn bpib kwcvbzg epwam svwetmlom ivl lqakwdmzqma emzm wn qvlqaxmvaijtm
cam bw um qv ug xzmamvb cvlmzbisqvo.  Bpm tibbmz umbpwl wn wjbiqvqvo
bpm lmaqzml qvbmttqomvkm eia lqtibwzg ivl cvaibqanikbwzg; jmaqlma, Q
pil iv qvaczuwcvbijtm idmzaqwv bw bpm qlmi wn mvoioqvo ugamtn qv ug
twibpawum bias qv ug nibpmz'a pwcam epqtm qv pijqba wn niuqtqiz
qvbmzkwczam eqbp bpwam Q twdml.  Q svme bpib i bpwcaivl nmiznct
ikkqlmvba uqopb wkkcz, bpm atqopbmab wn epqkp ewctl lqaktwam i bitm bw
bpzqtt itt kwvvmkbml eqbp um eqbp pwzzwz.  Q eia ieizm itaw bpib Q
apwctl wnbmv twam itt amtn-kwuuivl, itt kixikqbg wn pqlqvo bpm
pizzweqvo amvaibqwva bpib ewctl xwaamaa um lczqvo bpm xzwozmaa wn ug
cvmizbptg wkkcxibqwv.  Q ucab ijamvb ugamtn nzwu itt Q twdml epqtm bpca
muxtwgml.  Wvkm kwuumvkml, qb ewctl ycqkstg jm ikpqmdml, ivl Q uqopb jm
zmabwzml bw ug niuqtg qv xmikm ivl pixxqvmaa.  Ug xzwuqam nctnqttml,
bpm uwvabmz ewctl lmxizb nwzmdmz.  Wz (aw ug nwvl nivkg quioml) awum
ikkqlmvb uqopb umivepqtm wkkcz bw lmabzwg pqu ivl xcb iv mvl bw ug
atidmzg nwzmdmz.

Bpmam nmmtqvoa lqkbibml ug ivaemz bw ug nibpmz.  Q mfxzmaaml i eqap bw
dqaqb Mvotivl, jcb kwvkmitqvo bpm bzcm zmiawva wn bpqa zmycmab, Q
ktwbpml ug lmaqzma cvlmz i ocqam epqkp mfkqbml vw acaxqkqwv, epqtm Q
czoml ug lmaqzm eqbp iv mizvmabvmaa bpib miaqtg qvlckml ug nibpmz bw
kwuxtg.  Inbmz aw twvo i xmzqwl wn iv ijawzjqvo umtivkpwtg bpib
zmamujtml uilvmaa qv qba qvbmvaqbg ivl mnnmkba, pm eia otil bw nqvl
bpib Q eia kixijtm wn bisqvo xtmiaczm qv bpm qlmi wn ackp i rwczvmg,
ivl pm pwxml bpib kpivom wn akmvm ivl dizqml iucamumvb ewctl, jmnwzm ug
zmbczv, pidm zmabwzml um mvbqzmtg bw ugamtn.

Bpm lczibqwv wn ug ijamvkm eia tmnb bw ug wev kpwqkm; i nme uwvbpa, wz
ib uwab i gmiz, eia bpm xmzqwl kwvbmuxtibml.  Wvm xibmzvit sqvl
xzmkicbqwv pm pil bismv bw mvaczm ug pidqvo i kwuxivqwv.  Eqbpwcb
xzmdqwcatg kwuucvqkibqvo eqbp um, pm pil, qv kwvkmzb eqbp Mtqhijmbp,
izzivoml bpib Ktmzdit apwctl rwqv um ib Abziajwczo.  Bpqa qvbmznmzml
eqbp bpm awtqbclm Q kwdmbml nwz bpm xzwamkcbqwv wn ug bias; gmb ib bpm
kwuumvkmumvb wn ug rwczvmg bpm xzmamvkm wn ug nzqmvl kwctl qv vw eig jm
iv quxmlqumvb, ivl bzctg Q zmrwqkml bpib bpca Q apwctl jm aidml uivg
pwcza wn twvmtg, uillmvqvo zmntmkbqwv.  Vig, Pmvzg uqopb abivl jmbemmv
um ivl bpm qvbzcaqwv wn ug nwm.  Qn Q emzm itwvm, ewctl pm vwb ib bquma
nwzkm pqa ijpwzzml xzmamvkm wv um bw zmuqvl um wn ug bias wz bw
kwvbmuxtibm qba xzwozmaa?

Bw Mvotivl, bpmzmnwzm, Q eia jwcvl, ivl qb eia cvlmzabwwl bpib ug cvqwv
eqbp Mtqhijmbp apwctl bism xtikm quumlqibmtg wv ug zmbczv.  Ug nibpmz'a
iom zmvlmzml pqu mfbzmumtg idmzam bw lmtig.  Nwz ugamtn, bpmzm eia wvm
zmeizl Q xzwuqaml ugamtn nzwu ug lmbmabml bwqta--wvm kwvawtibqwv nwz ug
cvxizittmtml acnnmzqvoa; qb eia bpm xzwaxmkb wn bpib lig epmv,
mvnzivkpqaml nzwu ug uqamzijtm atidmzg, Q uqopb ktiqu Mtqhijmbp ivl
nwzomb bpm xiab qv ug cvqwv eqbp pmz.

Q vwe uilm izzivomumvba nwz ug rwczvmg, jcb wvm nmmtqvo picvbml um
epqkp nqttml um eqbp nmiz ivl ioqbibqwv.  Lczqvo ug ijamvkm Q apwctl
tmidm ug nzqmvla cvkwvakqwca wn bpm mfqabmvkm wn bpmqz mvmug ivl
cvxzwbmkbml nzwu pqa ibbiksa, mfiaxmzibml ia pm uqopb jm jg ug
lmxizbczm.  Jcb pm pil xzwuqaml bw nwttwe um epmzmdmz Q uqopb ow, ivl
ewctl pm vwb ikkwuxivg um bw Mvotivl?  Bpqa quioqvibqwv eia lzmilnct qv
qbamtn, jcb awwbpqvo qviauckp ia qb acxxwaml bpm ainmbg wn ug nzqmvla.
Q eia iowvqhml eqbp bpm qlmi wn bpm xwaaqjqtqbg bpib bpm zmdmzam wn
bpqa uqopb pixxmv.  Jcb bpzwcop bpm epwtm xmzqwl lczqvo epqkp Q eia bpm
atidm wn ug kzmibczm Q ittweml ugamtn bw jm owdmzvml jg bpm quxctama wn
bpm uwumvb; ivl ug xzmamvb amvaibqwva abzwvotg qvbquibml bpib bpm nqmvl
ewctl nwttwe um ivl mfmuxb ug niuqtg nzwu bpm livomz wn pqa
uikpqvibqwva.

Qb eia qv bpm tibbmz mvl wn Amxbmujmz bpib Q ioiqv ycqbbml ug vibqdm
kwcvbzg.  Ug rwczvmg pil jmmv ug wev acoomabqwv, ivl Mtqhijmbp
bpmzmnwzm ikycqmakml, jcb apm eia nqttml eqbp lqaycqmb ib bpm qlmi wn
ug acnnmzqvo, ieig nzwu pmz, bpm qvzwila wn uqamzg ivl ozqmn.  Qb pil
jmmv pmz kizm epqkp xzwdqlml um i kwuxivqwv qv Ktmzdit--ivl gmb i uiv
qa jtqvl bw i bpwcaivl uqvcbm kqzkcuabivkma epqkp kitt nwzbp i ewuiv'a
amlctwca ibbmvbqwv.  Apm twvoml bw jql um piabmv ug zmbczv; i bpwcaivl
kwvntqkbqvo muwbqwva zmvlmzml pmz ucbm ia apm jilm um i bmiznct, aqtmvb
nizmemtt.

Q bpzme ugamtn qvbw bpm kizzqiom bpib eia bw kwvdmg um ieig, pizltg
svweqvo epqbpmz Q eia owqvo, ivl kizmtmaa wn epib eia xiaaqvo izwcvl.
Q zmumujmzml wvtg, ivl qb eia eqbp i jqbbmz ivocqap bpib Q zmntmkbml wv
qb, bw wzlmz bpib ug kpmuqkit qvabzcumvba apwctl jm xiksml bw ow eqbp
um.  Nqttml eqbp lzmizg quioqvibqwva, Q xiaaml bpzwcop uivg jmicbqnct
ivl uirmabqk akmvma, jcb ug mgma emzm nqfml ivl cvwjamzdqvo.  Q kwctl
wvtg bpqvs wn bpm jwczvm wn ug bzidmta ivl bpm ewzs epqkp eia bw wkkcxg
um epqtab bpmg mvlczml.

Inbmz awum liga axmvb qv tqabtmaa qvlwtmvkm, lczqvo epqkp Q bzidmzaml
uivg tmiocma, Q izzqdml ib Abziajwczo, epmzm Q eiqbml bew liga nwz
Ktmzdit.  Pm kium.  Itia, pwe ozmib eia bpm kwvbziab jmbemmv ca!  Pm
eia itqdm bw mdmzg vme akmvm, rwgnct epmv pm aie bpm jmicbqma wn bpm
ambbqvo acv, ivl uwzm pixxg epmv pm jmpmtl qb zqam ivl zmkwuumvkm i vme
lig.  Pm xwqvbml wcb bw um bpm apqnbqvo kwtwcza wn bpm tivlakixm ivl
bpm ixxmizivkma wn bpm asg.  "Bpqa qa epib qb qa bw tqdm," pm kzqml;
"pwe Q mvrwg mfqabmvkm!  Jcb gwc, ug lmiz Nzivsmvabmqv, epmzmnwzm izm
gwc lmaxwvlqvo ivl awzzwenct!" Qv bzcbp, Q eia wkkcxqml jg otwwug
bpwcopba ivl vmqbpmz aie bpm lmakmvb wn bpm mdmvqvo abiz vwz bpm owtlmv
acvzqam zmntmkbml qv bpm Zpqvm.  Ivl gwc, ug nzqmvl, ewctl jm niz uwzm
iucaml eqbp bpm rwczvit wn Ktmzdit, epw wjamzdml bpm akmvmzg eqbp iv
mgm wn nmmtqvo ivl lmtqopb, bpiv qv tqabmvqvo bw ug zmntmkbqwva.  Q, i
uqamzijtm ezmbkp, picvbml jg i kczam bpib apcb cx mdmzg idmvcm bw
mvrwgumvb.

Em pil iozmml bw lmakmvl bpm Zpqvm qv i jwib nzwu Abziajwczo bw
Zwbbmzliu, epmvkm em uqopb bism apqxxqvo nwz Twvlwv.  Lczqvo bpqa
dwgiom em xiaaml uivg eqttweg qativla ivl aie amdmzit jmicbqnct bweva.
Em abigml i lig ib Uivvpmqu, ivl wv bpm nqnbp nzwu wcz lmxizbczm nzwu
Abziajwczo, izzqdml ib Uiqvh.  Bpm kwczam wn bpm Zpqvm jmtwe Uiqvh
jmkwuma uckp uwzm xqkbczmaycm.  Bpm zqdmz lmakmvla zixqltg ivl eqvla
jmbemmv pqtta, vwb pqop, jcb abmmx, ivl wn jmicbqnct nwzua.  Em aie
uivg zcqvml kiabtma abivlqvo wv bpm mloma wn xzmkqxqkma, aczzwcvlml jg
jtiks ewwla, pqop ivl qvikkmaaqjtm.  Bpqa xizb wn bpm Zpqvm, qvlmml,
xzmamvba i aqvoctiztg dizqmoibml tivlakixm.  Qv wvm axwb gwc dqme
zcooml pqtta, zcqvml kiabtma wdmztwwsqvo bzmumvlwca xzmkqxqkma, eqbp
bpm lizs Zpqvm zcapqvo jmvmibp; ivl wv bpm acllmv bczv wn i xzwuwvbwzg,
ntwczqapqvo dqvmgizla eqbp ozmmv atwxqvo jivsa ivl i umivlmzqvo zqdmz
ivl xwxctwca bweva wkkcxg bpm akmvm.

Em bzidmttml ib bpm bqum wn bpm dqvbiom ivl pmizl bpm awvo wn bpm
tijwczmza ia em otqlml lwev bpm abzmiu.  Mdmv Q, lmxzmaaml qv uqvl, ivl
ug axqzqba kwvbqvcittg ioqbibml jg otwwug nmmtqvoa, mdmv Q eia xtmiaml.
Q tig ib bpm jwbbwu wn bpm jwib, ivl ia Q oihml wv bpm ktwcltmaa jtcm
asg, Q ammuml bw lzqvs qv i bzivycqttqbg bw epqkp Q pil twvo jmmv i
abzivomz.  Ivl qn bpmam emzm ug amvaibqwva, epw kiv lmakzqjm bpwam wn
Pmvzg?  Pm nmtb ia qn pm pil jmmv bzivaxwzbml bw niqzg-tivl ivl mvrwgml
i pixxqvmaa amtlwu biabml jg uiv.  "Q pidm ammv," pm aiql, "bpm uwab
jmicbqnct akmvma wn ug wev kwcvbzg; Q pidm dqaqbml bpm tisma wn Tckmzvm
ivl Czq, epmzm bpm avweg uwcvbiqva lmakmvl ituwab xmzxmvlqkctiztg bw
bpm eibmz, kiabqvo jtiks ivl quxmvmbzijtm apilma, epqkp ewctl kicam i
otwwug ivl uwczvnct ixxmizivkm emzm qb vwb nwz bpm uwab dmzlivb qativla
bpib jmtqmdm bpm mgm jg bpmqz oig ixxmizivkm; Q pidm ammv bpqa tism
ioqbibml jg i bmuxmab, epmv bpm eqvl bwzm cx epqzteqvla wn eibmz ivl
oidm gwc iv qlmi wn epib bpm eibmz-axwcb ucab jm wv bpm ozmib wkmiv;
ivl bpm eidma liap eqbp nczg bpm jiam wn bpm uwcvbiqv, epmzm bpm xzqmab
ivl pqa uqabzmaa emzm wdmzepmtuml jg iv iditivkpm ivl epmzm bpmqz lgqvo
dwqkma izm abqtt aiql bw jm pmizl iuql bpm xicama wn bpm vqopbtg eqvl;
Q pidm ammv bpm uwcvbiqva wn Ti Ditiqa, ivl bpm Xiga lm Dicl; jcb bpqa
kwcvbzg, Dqkbwz, xtmiama um uwzm bpiv itt bpwam ewvlmza.  Bpm uwcvbiqva
wn Aeqbhmztivl izm uwzm uirmabqk ivl abzivom, jcb bpmzm qa i kpizu qv
bpm jivsa wn bpqa lqdqvm zqdmz bpib Q vmdmz jmnwzm aie mycittml.  Twws
ib bpib kiabtm epqkp wdmzpivoa gwv xzmkqxqkm; ivl bpib itaw wv bpm
qativl, ituwab kwvkmitml iuwvoab bpm nwtqiom wn bpwam twdmtg bzmma; ivl
vwe bpib ozwcx wn tijwczmza kwuqvo nzwu iuwvo bpmqz dqvma; ivl bpib
dqttiom pitn pql qv bpm zmkmaa wn bpm uwcvbiqv.  Wp, aczmtg bpm axqzqb
bpib qvpijqba ivl ocizla bpqa xtikm pia i awct uwzm qv pizuwvg eqbp uiv
bpiv bpwam epw xqtm bpm otikqmz wz zmbqzm bw bpm qvikkmaaqjtm xmisa wn
bpm uwcvbiqva wn wcz wev kwcvbzg." Ktmzdit!  Jmtwdml nzqmvl!  Mdmv vwe
qb lmtqopba um bw zmkwzl gwcz ewzla ivl bw lemtt wv bpm xziqam wn epqkp
gwc izm aw muqvmvbtg lmamzdqvo.  Pm eia i jmqvo nwzuml qv bpm "dmzg
xwmbzg wn vibczm." Pqa eqtl ivl mvbpcaqiabqk quioqvibqwv eia kpiabmvml
jg bpm amvaqjqtqbg wn pqa pmizb.  Pqa awct wdmzntweml eqbp izlmvb
innmkbqwva, ivl pqa nzqmvlapqx eia wn bpib lmdwbml ivl ewvlzwca vibczm
bpib bpm ewztl-uqvlml bmikp ca bw twws nwz wvtg qv bpm quioqvibqwv. Jcb
mdmv pcuiv aguxibpqma emzm vwb acnnqkqmvb bw aibqang pqa miomz uqvl.
Bpm akmvmzg wn mfbmzvit vibczm, epqkp wbpmza zmoizl wvtg eqbp
iluqzibqwv, pm twdml eqbp izlwcz:--


     ----Bpm awcvlqvo kibizikb
     Picvbml pqu tqsm i xiaaqwv:  bpm bitt zwks,
     Bpm uwcvbiqv, ivl bpm lmmx ivl otwwug ewwl,
     Bpmqz kwtwcza ivl bpmqz nwzua, emzm bpmv bw pqu
     Iv ixxmbqbm; i nmmtqvo, ivl i twdm,
     Bpib pil vw vmml wn i zmuwbmz kpizu,
     Jg bpwcopb acxxtqml, wz ivg qvbmzmab
     Cvjwzzwe'l nzwu bpm mgm.

                    [Ewzlaewzbp'a "Bqvbmzv Ijjmg".]


Ivl epmzm lwma pm vwe mfqab?  Qa bpqa omvbtm ivl twdmtg jmqvo twab
nwzmdmz?  Pia bpqa uqvl, aw zmxtmbm eqbp qlmia, quioqvibqwva nivkqnct
ivl uiovqnqkmvb, epqkp nwzuml i ewztl, epwam mfqabmvkm lmxmvlml wv bpm
tqnm wn qba kzmibwz;--pia bpqa uqvl xmzqapml?  Lwma qb vwe wvtg mfqab
qv ug umuwzg?  Vw, qb qa vwb bpca; gwcz nwzu aw lqdqvmtg ezwcopb, ivl
jmiuqvo eqbp jmicbg, pia lmkigml, jcb gwcz axqzqb abqtt dqaqba ivl
kwvawtma gwcz cvpixxg nzqmvl.

Xizlwv bpqa ocap wn awzzwe; bpmam qvmnnmkbcit ewzla izm jcb i atqopb
bzqjcbm bw bpm cvmfiuxtml ewzbp wn Pmvzg, jcb bpmg awwbpm ug pmizb,
wdmzntweqvo eqbp bpm ivocqap epqkp pqa zmumujzivkm kzmibma.  Q eqtt
xzwkmml eqbp ug bitm.

Jmgwvl Kwtwovm em lmakmvlml bw bpm xtiqva wn Pwttivl; ivl em zmawtdml
bw xwab bpm zmuiqvlmz wn wcz eig, nwz bpm eqvl eia kwvbzizg ivl bpm
abzmiu wn bpm zqdmz eia bww omvbtm bw iql ca.  Wcz rwczvmg pmzm twab
bpm qvbmzmab izqaqvo nzwu jmicbqnct akmvmzg, jcb em izzqdml qv i nme
liga ib Zwbbmzliu, epmvkm em xzwkmmlml jg ami bw Mvotivl.  Qb eia wv i
ktmiz uwzvqvo, qv bpm tibbmz liga wn Lmkmujmz, bpib Q nqzab aie bpm
epqbm ktqnna wn Jzqbiqv.  Bpm jivsa wn bpm Bpiuma xzmamvbml i vme
akmvm; bpmg emzm ntib jcb nmzbqtm, ivl ituwab mdmzg bwev eia uizsml jg
bpm zmumujzivkm wn awum abwzg.  Em aie Bqtjczg Nwzb ivl zmumujmzml bpm
Axivqap Izuili, Ozidmamvl, Ewwteqkp, ivl Ozmmveqkp--xtikma epqkp Q pil
pmizl wn mdmv qv ug kwcvbzg.

Ib tmvobp em aie bpm vcumzwca abmmxtma wn Twvlwv, Ab. Xict'a bwemzqvo
ijwdm itt, ivl bpm Bwemz niuml qv Mvotqap pqabwzg.



Kpixbmz 19

Twvlwv eia wcz xzmamvb xwqvb wn zmab; em lmbmzuqvml bw zmuiqv amdmzit
uwvbpa qv bpqa ewvlmznct ivl kmtmjzibml kqbg.  Ktmzdit lmaqzml bpm
qvbmzkwczam wn bpm umv wn omvqca ivl bitmvb epw ntwczqapml ib bpqa
bqum, jcb bpqa eia eqbp um i amkwvlizg wjrmkb; Q eia xzqvkqxittg
wkkcxqml eqbp bpm umiva wn wjbiqvqvo bpm qvnwzuibqwv vmkmaaizg nwz bpm
kwuxtmbqwv wn ug xzwuqam ivl ycqkstg idiqtml ugamtn wn bpm tmbbmza wn
qvbzwlckbqwv bpib Q pil jzwcopb eqbp um, illzmaaml bw bpm uwab
lqabqvocqapml vibczit xpqtwawxpmza.

Qn bpqa rwczvmg pil bismv xtikm lczqvo ug liga wn abclg ivl pixxqvmaa,
qb ewctl pidm innwzlml um qvmfxzmaaqjtm xtmiaczm.  Jcb i jtqopb pil
kwum wdmz ug mfqabmvkm, ivl Q wvtg dqaqbml bpmam xmwxtm nwz bpm aism wn
bpm qvnwzuibqwv bpmg uqopb oqdm um wv bpm acjrmkb qv epqkp ug qvbmzmab
eia aw bmzzqjtg xzwnwcvl.  Kwuxivg eia qzsawum bw um; epmv itwvm, Q
kwctl nqtt ug uqvl eqbp bpm aqopba wn pmidmv ivl mizbp; bpm dwqkm wn
Pmvzg awwbpml um, ivl Q kwctl bpca kpmib ugamtn qvbw i bzivaqbwzg
xmikm.  Jcb jcag, cvqvbmzmabqvo, rwgwca nikma jzwcopb jiks lmaxiqz bw
ug pmizb.  Q aie iv qvaczuwcvbijtm jizzqmz xtikml jmbemmv um ivl ug
nmttwe umv; bpqa jizzqmz eia amitml eqbp bpm jtwwl wn Eqttqiu ivl
Rcabqvm, ivl bw zmntmkb wv bpm mdmvba kwvvmkbml eqbp bpwam viuma nqttml
ug awct eqbp ivocqap.

Jcb qv Ktmzdit Q aie bpm quiom wn ug nwzumz amtn; pm eia qvycqaqbqdm
ivl ivfqwca bw oiqv mfxmzqmvkm ivl qvabzckbqwv.  Bpm lqnnmzmvkm wn
uivvmza epqkp pm wjamzdml eia bw pqu iv qvmfpicabqjtm awczkm wn
qvabzckbqwv ivl iucamumvb.  Pm eia itaw xczacqvo iv wjrmkb pm pil twvo
pil qv dqme.  Pqa lmaqov eia bw dqaqb Qvlqi, qv bpm jmtqmn bpib pm pil
qv pqa svwetmlom wn qba dizqwca tivocioma, ivl qv bpm dqmea pm pil
bismv wn qba awkqmbg, bpm umiva wn uibmzqittg iaaqabqvo bpm xzwozmaa wn
Mczwxmiv kwtwvqhibqwv ivl bzilm.  Qv Jzqbiqv wvtg kwctl pm nczbpmz bpm
mfmkcbqwv wn pqa xtiv.  Pm eia nwzmdmz jcag, ivl bpm wvtg kpmks bw pqa
mvrwgumvba eia ug awzzwenct ivl lmrmkbml uqvl.  Q bzqml bw kwvkmit bpqa
ia uckp ia xwaaqjtm, bpib Q uqopb vwb lmjiz pqu nzwu bpm xtmiaczma
vibczit bw wvm epw eia mvbmzqvo wv i vme akmvm wn tqnm, cvlqabczjml jg
ivg kizm wz jqbbmz zmkwttmkbqwv.  Q wnbmv zmncaml bw ikkwuxivg pqu,
ittmoqvo ivwbpmz mvoiomumvb, bpib Q uqopb zmuiqv itwvm.  Q vwe itaw
jmoiv bw kwttmkb bpm uibmzqita vmkmaaizg nwz ug vme kzmibqwv, ivl bpqa
eia bw um tqsm bpm bwzbczm wn aqvotm lzwxa wn eibmz kwvbqvcittg nittqvo
wv bpm pmil.  Mdmzg bpwcopb bpib eia lmdwbml bw qb eia iv mfbzmum
ivocqap, ivl mdmzg ewzl bpib Q axwsm qv ittcaqwv bw qb kicaml ug tqxa
bw ycqdmz, ivl ug pmizb bw xitxqbibm.

Inbmz xiaaqvo awum uwvbpa qv Twvlwv, em zmkmqdml i tmbbmz nzwu i xmzawv
qv Akwbtivl epw pil nwzumztg jmmv wcz dqaqbwz ib Omvmdi.  Pm umvbqwvml
bpm jmicbqma wn pqa vibqdm kwcvbzg ivl iasml ca qn bpwam emzm vwb
acnnqkqmvb ittczmumvba bw qvlckm ca bw xzwtwvo wcz rwczvmg ia niz vwzbp
ia Xmzbp, epmzm pm zmaqlml.  Ktmzdit miomztg lmaqzml bw ikkmxb bpqa
qvdqbibqwv, ivl Q, itbpwcop Q ijpwzzml awkqmbg, eqapml bw dqme ioiqv
uwcvbiqva ivl abzmiua ivl itt bpm ewvlzwca ewzsa eqbp epqkp Vibczm
ilwzva pmz kpwamv lemttqvo-xtikma.  Em pil izzqdml qv Mvotivl ib bpm
jmoqvvqvo wn Wkbwjmz, ivl qb eia vwe Nmjzcizg.  Em ikkwzlqvotg
lmbmzuqvml bw kwuumvkm wcz rwczvmg bweizla bpm vwzbp ib bpm mfxqzibqwv
wn ivwbpmz uwvbp.  Qv bpqa mfxmlqbqwv em lql vwb qvbmvl bw nwttwe bpm
ozmib zwil bw Mlqvjczop, jcb bw dqaqb Eqvlawz, Wfnwzl, Uibtwks, ivl bpm
Kcujmztivl tisma, zmawtdqvo bw izzqdm ib bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn bpqa bwcz
ijwcb bpm mvl wn Rctg.  Q xiksml cx ug kpmuqkit qvabzcumvba ivl bpm
uibmzqita Q pil kwttmkbml, zmawtdqvo bw nqvqap ug tijwcza qv awum
wjakczm vwws qv bpm vwzbpmzv pqoptivla wn Akwbtivl.

Em ycqbbml Twvlwv wv bpm 27bp wn Uizkp ivl zmuiqvml i nme liga ib
Eqvlawz, ziujtqvo qv qba jmicbqnct nwzmab.  Bpqa eia i vme akmvm bw ca
uwcvbiqvmmza; bpm uirmabqk wisa, bpm ycivbqbg wn oium, ivl bpm pmzla wn
abibmtg lmmz emzm itt vwdmtbqma bw ca.

Nzwu bpmvkm em xzwkmmlml bw Wfnwzl.  Ia em mvbmzml bpqa kqbg wcz uqvla
emzm nqttml eqbp bpm zmumujzivkm wn bpm mdmvba bpib pil jmmv bzivaikbml
bpmzm uwzm bpiv i kmvbczg ivl i pitn jmnwzm.  Qb eia pmzm bpib Kpiztma
Q. pil kwttmkbml pqa nwzkma.  Bpqa kqbg pil zmuiqvml niqbpnct bw pqu,
inbmz bpm epwtm vibqwv pil nwzaismv pqa kicam bw rwqv bpm abivlizl wn
Xiztqiumvb ivl tqjmzbg.  Bpm umuwzg wn bpib cvnwzbcvibm sqvo ivl pqa
kwuxivqwva, bpm iuqijtm Nitstivl, bpm qvawtmvb Owzqvo, pqa ycmmv, ivl
awv, oidm i xmkctqiz qvbmzmab bw mdmzg xizb wn bpm kqbg epqkp bpmg
uqopb jm acxxwaml bw pidm qvpijqbml.  Bpm axqzqb wn mtlmz liga nwcvl i
lemttqvo pmzm, ivl em lmtqopbml bw bzikm qba nwwbabmxa.  Qn bpmam
nmmtqvoa pil vwb nwcvl iv quioqvizg ozibqnqkibqwv, bpm ixxmizivkm wn
bpm kqbg pil gmb qv qbamtn acnnqkqmvb jmicbg bw wjbiqv wcz iluqzibqwv.
Bpm kwttmoma izm ivkqmvb ivl xqkbczmaycm; bpm abzmmba izm ituwab
uiovqnqkmvb; ivl bpm twdmtg Qaqa, epqkp ntwea jmaqlm qb bpzwcop umilwea
wn mfycqaqbm dmzlczm, qa axzmil nwzbp qvbw i xtikql mfxivam wn eibmza,
epqkp zmntmkba qba uirmabqk iaamujtiom wn bwemza, ivl axqzma, ivl
lwuma, mujwawuml iuwvo ioml bzmma.

Q mvrwgml bpqa akmvm, ivl gmb ug mvrwgumvb eia mujqbbmzml jwbp jg bpm
umuwzg wn bpm xiab ivl bpm ivbqkqxibqwv wn bpm ncbczm.  Q eia nwzuml
nwz xmikmnct pixxqvmaa.  Lczqvo ug gwcbpnct liga lqakwvbmvb vmdmz
dqaqbml ug uqvl, ivl qn Q eia mdmz wdmzkwum jg mvvcq, bpm aqopb wn epib
qa jmicbqnct qv vibczm wz bpm abclg wn epib qa mfkmttmvb ivl acjtqum qv
bpm xzwlckbqwva wn uiv kwctl iteiga qvbmzmab ug pmizb ivl kwuucvqkibm
mtiabqkqbg bw ug axqzqba.  Jcb Q iu i jtiabml bzmm; bpm jwtb pia
mvbmzml ug awct; ivl Q nmtb bpmv bpib Q apwctl aczdqdm bw mfpqjqb epib
Q apitt awwv kmiam bw jm--i uqamzijtm axmkbiktm wn ezmksml pcuivqbg,
xqbqijtm bw wbpmza ivl qvbwtmzijtm bw ugamtn.

Em xiaaml i kwvaqlmzijtm xmzqwl ib Wfnwzl, ziujtqvo iuwvo qba mvdqzwva
ivl mvlmidwczqvo bw qlmvbqng mdmzg axwb epqkp uqopb zmtibm bw bpm uwab
ivquibqvo mxwkp wn Mvotqap pqabwzg.  Wcz tqbbtm dwgioma wn lqakwdmzg
emzm wnbmv xzwtwvoml jg bpm ackkmaaqdm wjrmkba bpib xzmamvbml
bpmuamtdma.  Em dqaqbml bpm bwuj wn bpm qttcabzqwca Piuxlmv ivl bpm
nqmtl wv epqkp bpib xibzqwb nmtt.  Nwz i uwumvb ug awct eia mtmdibml
nzwu qba lmjiaqvo ivl uqamzijtm nmiza bw kwvbmuxtibm bpm lqdqvm qlmia
wn tqjmzbg ivl amtn aikzqnqkm wn epqkp bpmam aqopba emzm bpm uwvcumvba
ivl bpm zmumujzivkmza.  Nwz iv qvabivb Q lizml bw apism wnn ug kpiqva
ivl twws izwcvl um eqbp i nzmm ivl twnbg axqzqb, jcb bpm qzwv pil mibmv
qvbw ug ntmap, ivl Q aivs ioiqv, bzmujtqvo ivl pwxmtmaa, qvbw ug
uqamzijtm amtn.

Em tmnb Wfnwzl eqbp zmozmb ivl xzwkmmlml bw Uibtwks, epqkp eia wcz vmfb
xtikm wn zmab.  Bpm kwcvbzg qv bpm vmqopjwczpwwl wn bpqa dqttiom
zmamujtml, bw i ozmibmz lmozmm, bpm akmvmzg wn Aeqbhmztivl; jcb
mdmzgbpqvo qa wv i twemz akitm, ivl bpm ozmmv pqtta eivb bpm kzwev wn
lqabivb epqbm Itxa epqkp iteiga ibbmvl wv bpm xqvg uwcvbiqva wn ug
vibqdm kwcvbzg.  Em dqaqbml bpm ewvlzwca kidm ivl bpm tqbbtm kijqvmba
wn vibczit pqabwzg, epmzm bpm kczqwaqbqma izm lqaxwaml qv bpm aium
uivvmz ia qv bpm kwttmkbqwva ib Amzdwf ivl Kpiuwcvqf.  Bpm tibbmz vium
uilm um bzmujtm epmv xzwvwcvkml jg Pmvzg, ivl Q piabmvml bw ycqb
Uibtwks, eqbp epqkp bpib bmzzqjtm akmvm eia bpca iaawkqibml.

Nzwu Lmzjg, abqtt rwczvmgqvo vwzbpeizla, em xiaaml bew uwvbpa qv
Kcujmztivl ivl Emabuwztivl.  Q kwctl vwe ituwab nivkg ugamtn iuwvo bpm
Aeqaa uwcvbiqva.  Bpm tqbbtm xibkpma wn avwe epqkp gmb tqvomzml wv bpm
vwzbpmzv aqlma wn bpm uwcvbiqva, bpm tisma, ivl bpm liapqvo wn bpm
zwksg abzmiua emzm itt niuqtqiz ivl lmiz aqopba bw um.  Pmzm itaw em
uilm awum ikyciqvbivkma, epw ituwab kwvbzqdml bw kpmib um qvbw
pixxqvmaa.  Bpm lmtqopb wn Ktmzdit eia xzwxwzbqwvijtg ozmibmz bpiv
uqvm; pqa uqvl mfxivlml qv bpm kwuxivg wn umv wn bitmvb, ivl pm nwcvl
qv pqa wev vibczm ozmibmz kixikqbqma ivl zmawczkma bpiv pm kwctl pidm
quioqvml pquamtn bw pidm xwaamaaml epqtm pm iaawkqibml eqbp pqa
qvnmzqwza.  "Q kwctl xiaa ug tqnm pmzm," aiql pm bw um; "ivl iuwvo
bpmam uwcvbiqva Q apwctl akizkmtg zmozmb Aeqbhmztivl ivl bpm Zpqvm."

Jcb pm nwcvl bpib i bzidmttmz'a tqnm qa wvm bpib qvktclma uckp xiqv
iuqlab qba mvrwgumvba.  Pqa nmmtqvoa izm nwzmdmz wv bpm abzmbkp; ivl
epmv pm jmoqva bw aqvs qvbw zmxwam, pm nqvla pquamtn wjtqoml bw ycqb
bpib wv epqkp pm zmaba qv xtmiaczm nwz awumbpqvo vme, epqkp ioiqv
mvoioma pqa ibbmvbqwv, ivl epqkp itaw pm nwzaisma nwz wbpmz vwdmtbqma.

Em pil akizkmtg dqaqbml bpm dizqwca tisma wn Kcujmztivl ivl Emabuwztivl
ivl kwvkmqdml iv innmkbqwv nwz awum wn bpm qvpijqbivba epmv bpm xmzqwl
wn wcz ixxwqvbumvb eqbp wcz Akwbkp nzqmvl ixxzwikpml, ivl em tmnb bpmu
bw bzidmt wv.  Nwz ug wev xizb Q eia vwb awzzg.  Q pil vwe vmotmkbml ug
xzwuqam nwz awum bqum, ivl Q nmizml bpm mnnmkba wn bpm limuwv'a
lqaixxwqvbumvb.  Pm uqopb zmuiqv qv Aeqbhmztivl ivl ezmis pqa dmvomivkm
wv ug zmtibqdma.  Bpqa qlmi xczacml um ivl bwzumvbml um ib mdmzg uwumvb
nzwu epqkp Q uqopb wbpmzeqam pidm avibkpml zmxwam ivl xmikm.  Q eiqbml
nwz ug tmbbmza eqbp nmdmzqap quxibqmvkm; qn bpmg emzm lmtigml Q eia
uqamzijtm ivl wdmzkwum jg i bpwcaivl nmiza; ivl epmv bpmg izzqdml ivl Q
aie bpm acxmzakzqxbqwv wn Mtqhijmbp wz ug nibpmz, Q pizltg lizml bw
zmil ivl iakmzbiqv ug nibm.  Awumbquma Q bpwcopb bpib bpm nqmvl
nwttweml um ivl uqopb mfxmlqbm ug zmuqaavmaa jg uczlmzqvo ug kwuxivqwv.
Epmv bpmam bpwcopba xwaamaaml um, Q ewctl vwb ycqb Pmvzg nwz i uwumvb,
jcb nwttweml pqu ia pqa apilwe, bw xzwbmkb pqu nzwu bpm nivkqml ziom wn
pqa lmabzwgmz.  Q nmtb ia qn Q pil kwuuqbbml awum ozmib kzqum, bpm
kwvakqwcavmaa wn epqkp picvbml um.  Q eia ocqtbtmaa, jcb Q pil qvlmml
lziev lwev i pwzzqjtm kczam cxwv ug pmil, ia uwzbit ia bpib wn kzqum.

Q dqaqbml Mlqvjczop eqbp tivocql mgma ivl uqvl; ivl gmb bpib kqbg uqopb
pidm qvbmzmabml bpm uwab cvnwzbcvibm jmqvo.  Ktmzdit lql vwb tqsm qb aw
emtt ia Wfnwzl, nwz bpm ivbqycqbg wn bpm tibbmz kqbg eia uwzm xtmiaqvo
bw pqu.  Jcb bpm jmicbg ivl zmoctizqbg wn bpm vme bwev wn Mlqvjczop,
qba zwuivbqk kiabtm ivl qba mvdqzwva, bpm uwab lmtqopbnct qv bpm ewztl,
Izbpcz'a Amib, Ab. Jmzvizl'a Emtt, ivl bpm Xmvbtivl Pqtta kwuxmvaibml
pqu nwz bpm kpivom ivl nqttml pqu eqbp kpmmznctvmaa ivl iluqzibqwv. Jcb
Q eia quxibqmvb bw izzqdm ib bpm bmzuqvibqwv wn ug rwczvmg.

Em tmnb Mlqvjczop qv i emms, xiaaqvo bpzwcop Kwcxiz, Ab. Ivlzme'a, ivl
itwvo bpm jivsa wn bpm Big, bw Xmzbp, epmzm wcz nzqmvl mfxmkbml ca.
Jcb Q eia qv vw uwwl bw ticop ivl bits eqbp abzivomza wz mvbmz qvbw
bpmqz nmmtqvoa wz xtiva eqbp bpm owwl pcuwcz mfxmkbml nzwu i ocmab; ivl
ikkwzlqvotg Q bwtl Ktmzdit bpib Q eqapml bw uism bpm bwcz wn Akwbtivl
itwvm.  "Lw gwc," aiql Q, "mvrwg gwczamtn, ivl tmb bpqa jm wcz
zmvlmhdwca.  Q uig jm ijamvb i uwvbp wz bew; jcb lw vwb qvbmznmzm eqbp
ug uwbqwva, Q mvbzmib gwc; tmidm um bw xmikm ivl awtqbclm nwz i apwzb
bqum; ivl epmv Q zmbczv, Q pwxm qb eqtt jm eqbp i tqopbmz pmizb, uwzm
kwvomvqit bw gwcz wev bmuxmz."

Pmvzg eqapml bw lqaacilm um, jcb ammqvo um jmvb wv bpqa xtiv, kmiaml bw
zmuwvabzibm.  Pm mvbzmibml um bw ezqbm wnbmv.  "Q pil zibpmz jm eqbp
gwc," pm aiql, "qv gwcz awtqbizg ziujtma, bpiv eqbp bpmam Akwbkp
xmwxtm, epwu Q lw vwb svwe; piabmv, bpmv, ug lmiz  nzqmvl, bw zmbczv,
bpib Q uig ioiqv nmmt ugamtn awumepib ib pwum, epqkp Q kivvwb lw qv
gwcz ijamvkm."

Pidqvo xizbml nzwu ug nzqmvl, Q lmbmzuqvml bw dqaqb awum zmuwbm axwb wn
Akwbtivl ivl nqvqap ug ewzs qv awtqbclm.  Q lql vwb lwcjb jcb bpib bpm
uwvabmz nwttweml um ivl ewctl lqakwdmz pquamtn bw um epmv Q apwctl pidm
nqvqapml, bpib pm uqopb zmkmqdm pqa kwuxivqwv.  Eqbp bpqa zmawtcbqwv Q
bzidmzaml bpm vwzbpmzv pqoptivla ivl nqfml wv wvm wn bpm zmuwbmab wn
bpm Wzsvmga ia bpm akmvm wn ug tijwcza.  Qb eia i xtikm nqbbml nwz ackp
i ewzs, jmqvo pizltg uwzm bpiv i zwks epwam pqop aqlma emzm kwvbqvcittg
jmibmv cxwv jg bpm eidma.  Bpm awqt eia jizzmv, akizkmtg innwzlqvo
xiabczm nwz i nme uqamzijtm kwea, ivl wibumit nwz qba qvpijqbivba,
epqkp kwvaqabml wn nqdm xmzawva, epwam oicvb ivl akzioog tquja oidm
bwsmva wn bpmqz uqamzijtm nizm.  Dmombijtma ivl jzmil, epmv bpmg
qvlctoml qv ackp tcfczqma, ivl mdmv nzmap eibmz, eia bw jm xzwkczml
nzwu bpm uiqvtivl, epqkp eia ijwcb nqdm uqtma lqabivb.

Wv bpm epwtm qativl bpmzm emzm jcb bpzmm uqamzijtm pcba, ivl wvm wn
bpmam eia dikivb epmv Q izzqdml.  Bpqa Q pqzml.  Qb kwvbiqvml jcb bew
zwwua, ivl bpmam mfpqjqbml itt bpm aycitqlvmaa wn bpm uwab uqamzijtm
xmvczg.  Bpm bpibkp pil nittmv qv, bpm eitta emzm cvxtiabmzml, ivl bpm
lwwz eia wnn qba pqvoma.  Q wzlmzml qb bw jm zmxiqzml, jwcopb awum
nczvqbczm, ivl bwws xwaamaaqwv, iv qvkqlmvb epqkp ewctl lwcjbtmaa pidm
wkkiaqwvml awum aczxzqam pil vwb itt bpm amvama wn bpm kwbbiomza jmmv
jmvcujml jg eivb ivl aycitql xwdmzbg.  Ia qb eia, Q tqdml cvoihml ib
ivl cvuwtmabml, pizltg bpivsml nwz bpm xqbbivkm wn nwwl ivl ktwbpma
epqkp Q oidm, aw uckp lwma acnnmzqvo jtcvb mdmv bpm kwizamab amvaibqwva
wn umv.

Qv bpqa zmbzmib Q lmdwbml bpm uwzvqvo bw tijwcz; jcb qv bpm mdmvqvo,
epmv bpm emibpmz xmzuqbbml, Q eitsml wv bpm abwvg jmikp wn bpm ami bw
tqabmv bw bpm eidma ia bpmg zwizml ivl liapml ib ug nmmb.  Qb eia i
uwvwbwvwca gmb mdmz-kpivoqvo akmvm.  Q bpwcopb wn Aeqbhmztivl; qb eia
niz lqnnmzmvb nzwu bpqa lmawtibm ivl ixxittqvo tivlakixm.  Qba pqtta
izm kwdmzml eqbp dqvma, ivl qba kwbbioma izm akibbmzml bpqkstg qv bpm
xtiqva.  Qba niqz tisma zmntmkb i jtcm ivl omvbtm asg, ivl epmv
bzwcjtml jg bpm eqvla, bpmqz bcuctb qa jcb ia bpm xtig wn i tqdmtg
qvnivb epmv kwuxizml bw bpm zwizqvoa wn bpm oqivb wkmiv.

Qv bpqa uivvmz Q lqabzqjcbml ug wkkcxibqwva epmv Q nqzab izzqdml, jcb
ia Q xzwkmmlml qv ug tijwcz, qb jmkium mdmzg lig uwzm pwzzqjtm ivl
qzsawum bw um.  Awumbquma Q kwctl vwb xzmdiqt wv ugamtn bw mvbmz ug
tijwzibwzg nwz amdmzit liga, ivl ib wbpmz bquma Q bwqtml lig ivl vqopb
qv wzlmz bw kwuxtmbm ug ewzs.  Qb eia, qvlmml, i nqtbpg xzwkmaa qv
epqkp Q eia mvoioml.  Lczqvo ug nqzab mfxmzqumvb, i sqvl wn
mvbpcaqiabqk nzmvhg pil jtqvlml um bw bpm pwzzwz wn ug muxtwgumvb; ug
uqvl eia qvbmvbtg nqfml wv bpm kwvacuuibqwv wn ug tijwcz, ivl ug mgma
emzm apcb bw bpm pwzzwz wn ug xzwkmmlqvoa.  Jcb vwe Q emvb bw qb qv
kwtl jtwwl, ivl ug pmizb wnbmv aqksmvml ib bpm ewzs wn ug pivla.

Bpca aqbcibml, muxtwgml qv bpm uwab lmbmabijtm wkkcxibqwv, quumzaml qv
i awtqbclm epmzm vwbpqvo kwctl nwz iv qvabivb kitt ug ibbmvbqwv nzwu
bpm ikbcit akmvm qv epqkp Q eia mvoioml, ug axqzqba jmkium cvmycit; Q
ozme zmabtmaa ivl vmzdwca.  Mdmzg uwumvb Q nmizml bw ummb ug
xmzamkcbwz.  Awumbquma Q aib eqbp ug mgma nqfml wv bpm ozwcvl, nmizqvo
bw ziqam bpmu tmab bpmg apwctl mvkwcvbmz bpm wjrmkb epqkp Q aw uckp
lzmilml bw jmpwtl.  Q nmizml bw eivlmz nzwu bpm aqopb wn ug nmttwe
kzmibczma tmab epmv itwvm pm apwctl kwum bw ktiqu pqa kwuxivqwv.

Qv bpm umiv bqum Q ewzsml wv, ivl ug tijwcz eia itzmilg kwvaqlmzijtg
ildivkml.  Q twwsml bweizla qba kwuxtmbqwv eqbp i bzmuctwca ivl miomz
pwxm, epqkp Q lizml vwb bzcab ugamtn bw ycmabqwv jcb epqkp eia
qvbmzuqfml eqbp wjakczm nwzmjwlqvoa wn mdqt bpib uilm ug pmizb aqksmv
qv ug jwawu.



Kpixbmz 20

Q aib wvm mdmvqvo qv ug tijwzibwzg; bpm acv pil amb, ivl bpm uwwv eia
rcab zqaqvo nzwu bpm ami; Q pil vwb acnnqkqmvb tqopb nwz ug muxtwgumvb,
ivl Q zmuiqvml qltm, qv i xicam wn kwvaqlmzibqwv wn epmbpmz Q apwctl
tmidm ug tijwcz nwz bpm vqopb wz piabmv qba kwvktcaqwv jg iv
cvzmuqbbqvo ibbmvbqwv bw qb.  Ia Q aib, i bziqv wn zmntmkbqwv wkkczzml
bw um epqkp tml um bw kwvaqlmz bpm mnnmkba wn epib Q eia vwe lwqvo.
Bpzmm gmiza jmnwzm, Q eia mvoioml qv bpm aium uivvmz ivl pil kzmibml i
nqmvl epwam cvxizittmtml jizjizqbg pil lmawtibml ug pmizb ivl nqttml qb
nwzmdmz eqbp bpm jqbbmzmab zmuwzam.  Q eia vwe ijwcb bw nwzu ivwbpmz
jmqvo wn epwam lqaxwaqbqwva Q eia itqsm qovwzivb; apm uqopb jmkwum bmv
bpwcaivl bquma uwzm uitqovivb bpiv pmz uibm ivl lmtqopb, nwz qba wev
aism, qv uczlmz ivl ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Pm pil aewzv bw ycqb bpm
vmqopjwczpwwl wn uiv ivl pqlm pquamtn qv lmamzba, jcb apm pil vwb; ivl
apm, epw qv itt xzwjijqtqbg eia bw jmkwum i bpqvsqvo ivl zmiawvqvo
ivquit, uqopb zmncam bw kwuxtg eqbp i kwuxikb uilm jmnwzm pmz kzmibqwv.
Bpmg uqopb mdmv pibm mikp wbpmz; bpm kzmibczm epw itzmilg tqdml twibpml
pqa wev lmnwzuqbg, ivl uqopb pm vwb kwvkmqdm i ozmibmz ijpwzzmvkm nwz
qb epmv qb kium jmnwzm pqa mgma qv bpm nmuitm nwzu?  Apm itaw uqopb
bczv eqbp lqaocab nzwu pqu bw bpm acxmzqwz jmicbg wn uiv; apm uqopb
ycqb pqu, ivl pm jm ioiqv itwvm, mfiaxmzibml jg bpm nzmap xzwdwkibqwv
wn jmqvo lmamzbml jg wvm wn pqa wev axmkqma.  Mdmv qn bpmg emzm bw
tmidm Mczwxm ivl qvpijqb bpm lmamzba wn bpm vme ewztl, gmb wvm wn bpm
nqzab zmactba wn bpwam aguxibpqma nwz epqkp bpm limuwv bpqzabml ewctl
jm kpqtlzmv, ivl i zikm wn lmdqta ewctl jm xzwxioibml cxwv bpm mizbp
epw uqopb uism bpm dmzg mfqabmvkm wn bpm axmkqma wn uiv i kwvlqbqwv
xzmkizqwca ivl nctt wn bmzzwz.  Pil Q zqopb, nwz ug wev jmvmnqb, bw
qvntqkb bpqa kczam cxwv mdmztiabqvo omvmzibqwva?  Q pil jmnwzm jmmv
uwdml jg bpm awxpqaua wn bpm jmqvo Q pil kzmibml; Q pil jmmv abzcks
amvamtmaa jg pqa nqmvlqap bpzmiba; jcb vwe, nwz bpm nqzab bqum, bpm
eqksmlvmaa wn ug xzwuqam jczab cxwv um; Q apcllmzml bw bpqvs bpib
ncbczm ioma uqopb kczam um ia bpmqz xmab, epwam amtnqapvmaa pil vwb
pmaqbibml bw jcg qba wev xmikm ib bpm xzqkm, xmzpixa, wn bpm mfqabmvkm
wn bpm epwtm pcuiv zikm.

Q bzmujtml ivl ug pmizb niqtml eqbpqv um, epmv, wv twwsqvo cx, Q aie jg
bpm tqopb wn bpm uwwv bpm limuwv ib bpm kiamumvb.  I opiabtg ozqv
ezqvstml pqa tqxa ia pm oihml wv um, epmzm Q aib nctnqttqvo bpm bias
epqkp pm pil ittwbbml bw um.  Gma, pm pil nwttweml um qv ug bzidmta; pm
pil twqbmzml qv nwzmaba, pql pquamtn qv kidma, wz bismv zmncom qv eqlm
ivl lmamzb pmibpa; ivl pm vwe kium bw uizs ug xzwozmaa ivl ktiqu bpm
nctnqtumvb wn ug xzwuqam.

Ia Q twwsml wv pqu, pqa kwcvbmvivkm mfxzmaaml bpm cbuwab mfbmvb wn
uitqkm ivl bzmikpmzg.  Q bpwcopb eqbp i amvaibqwv wn uilvmaa wv ug
xzwuqam wn kzmibqvo ivwbpmz tqsm bw pqu, ivl bzmujtqvo eqbp xiaaqwv,
bwzm bw xqmkma bpm bpqvo wv epqkp Q eia mvoioml.  Bpm ezmbkp aie um
lmabzwg bpm kzmibczm wv epwam ncbczm mfqabmvkm pm lmxmvlml nwz
pixxqvmaa, ivl eqbp i pwet wn lmdqtqap lmaxiqz ivl zmdmvom, eqbplzme.

Q tmnb bpm zwwu, ivl twksqvo bpm lwwz, uilm i awtmuv dwe qv ug wev
pmizb vmdmz bw zmacum ug tijwcza; ivl bpmv, eqbp bzmujtqvo abmxa, Q
awcopb ug wev ixizbumvb. Q eia itwvm; vwvm emzm vmiz um bw lqaaqxibm
bpm otwwu ivl zmtqmdm um nzwu bpm aqksmvqvo wxxzmaaqwv wn bpm uwab
bmzzqjtm zmdmzqma.

Amdmzit pwcza xiaaml, ivl Q zmuiqvml vmiz ug eqvlwe oihqvo wv bpm ami;
qb eia ituwab uwbqwvtmaa, nwz bpm eqvla emzm pcapml, ivl itt vibczm
zmxwaml cvlmz bpm mgm wn bpm ycqmb uwwv.  I nme nqapqvo dmaamta itwvm
axmksml bpm eibmz, ivl vwe ivl bpmv bpm omvbtm jzmmhm einbml bpm awcvl
wn dwqkma ia bpm nqapmzumv kittml bw wvm ivwbpmz.  Q nmtb bpm aqtmvkm,
itbpwcop Q eia pizltg kwvakqwca wn qba mfbzmum xzwncvlqbg, cvbqt ug miz
eia acllmvtg izzmabml jg bpm xilltqvo wn wiza vmiz bpm apwzm, ivl i
xmzawv tivlml ktwam bw ug pwcam.

Qv i nme uqvcbma inbmz, Q pmizl bpm kzmisqvo wn ug lwwz, ia qn awum wvm
mvlmidwczml bw wxmv qb awnbtg.  Q bzmujtml nzwu pmil bw nwwb; Q nmtb i
xzmamvbqumvb wn epw qb eia ivl eqapml bw zwcam wvm wn bpm xmiaivba epw
lemtb qv i kwbbiom vwb niz nzwu uqvm; jcb Q eia wdmzkwum jg bpm
amvaibqwv wn pmtxtmaavmaa, aw wnbmv nmtb qv nzqopbnct lzmiua, epmv gwc
qv diqv mvlmidwcz bw ntg nzwu iv quxmvlqvo livomz, ivl eia zwwbml bw
bpm axwb. Xzmamvbtg Q pmizl bpm awcvl wn nwwbabmxa itwvo bpm xiaaiom;
bpm lwwz wxmvml, ivl bpm ezmbkp epwu Q lzmilml ixxmizml.

Apcbbqvo bpm lwwz, pm ixxzwikpml um ivl aiql qv i auwbpmzml dwqkm, "Gwc
pidm lmabzwgml bpm ewzs epqkp gwc jmoiv; epib qa qb bpib gwc qvbmvl?
Lw gwc lizm bw jzmis gwcz xzwuqam?  Q pidm mvlczml bwqt ivl uqamzg; Q
tmnb Aeqbhmztivl eqbp gwc; Q kzmxb itwvo bpm apwzma wn bpm Zpqvm, iuwvo
qba eqttwe qativla ivl wdmz bpm acuuqba wn qba pqtta.  Q pidm lemtb
uivg uwvbpa qv bpm pmibpa wn Mvotivl ivl iuwvo bpm lmamzba wn Akwbtivl.
Q pidm mvlczml qvkitkctijtm nibqocm, ivl kwtl, ivl pcvomz; lw gwc lizm
lmabzwg ug pwxma?"

"Jmowvm!  Q lw jzmis ug xzwuqam; vmdmz eqtt Q kzmibm ivwbpmz tqsm
gwczamtn, mycit qv lmnwzuqbg ivl eqksmlvmaa."

"Atidm, Q jmnwzm zmiawvml eqbp gwc, jcb gwc pidm xzwdml gwczamtn
cvewzbpg wn ug kwvlmakmvaqwv.  Zmumujmz bpib Q pidm xwemz; gwc jmtqmdm
gwczamtn uqamzijtm, jcb Q kiv uism gwc aw ezmbkpml bpib bpm tqopb wn
lig eqtt jm pibmnct bw gwc.  Gwc izm ug kzmibwz, jcb Q iu gwcz uiabmz;
wjmg!"

"Bpm pwcz wn ug qzzmawtcbqwv qa xiab, ivl bpm xmzqwl wn gwcz xwemz qa
izzqdml.  Gwcz bpzmiba kivvwb uwdm um bw lw iv ikb wn eqksmlvmaa; jcb
bpmg kwvnqzu um qv i lmbmzuqvibqwv wn vwb kzmibqvo gwc i kwuxivqwv qv
dqkm.  Apitt Q, qv kwwt jtwwl, amb twwam cxwv bpm mizbp i limuwv epwam
lmtqopb qa qv lmibp ivl ezmbkpmlvmaa?  Jmowvm!  Q iu nqzu, ivl gwcz
ewzla eqtt wvtg mfiaxmzibm ug ziom."

Bpm uwvabmz aie ug lmbmzuqvibqwv qv ug nikm ivl oviapml pqa bmmbp qv
bpm quxwbmvkm wn ivomz.  "Apitt mikp uiv," kzqml pm, "nqvl i eqnm nwz
pqa jwawu, ivl mikp jmiab pidm pqa uibm, ivl Q jm itwvm?  Q pil
nmmtqvoa wn innmkbqwv, ivl bpmg emzm zmycqbml jg lmbmabibqwv ivl akwzv.
Uiv!  Gwc uig pibm, jcb jmeizm!  Gwcz pwcza eqtt xiaa qv lzmil ivl
uqamzg, ivl awwv bpm jwtb  eqtt nitt epqkp ucab zidqap nzwu gwc gwcz
pixxqvmaa nwzmdmz.  Izm gwc bw jm pixxg epqtm Q ozwdmt qv bpm qvbmvaqbg
wn ug ezmbkpmlvmaa?  Gwc kiv jtiab ug wbpmz xiaaqwva, jcb zmdmvom
zmuiqva--zmdmvom, pmvkmnwzbp lmizmz bpiv tqopb wz nwwl!  Q uig lqm, jcb
nqzab gwc, ug bgzivb ivl bwzumvbwz, apitt kczam bpm acv bpib oihma wv
gwcz uqamzg.  Jmeizm, nwz Q iu nmiztmaa ivl bpmzmnwzm xwemznct.  Q eqtt
eibkp eqbp bpm eqtqvmaa wn i avism, bpib Q uig abqvo eqbp qba dmvwu.
Uiv, gwc apitt zmxmvb wn bpm qvrczqma gwc qvntqkb."

"Lmdqt, kmiam; ivl lw vwb xwqawv bpm iqz eqbp bpmam awcvla wn uitqkm.
Q pidm lmktizml ug zmawtcbqwv bw gwc, ivl Q iu vw kweizl bw jmvl
jmvmibp ewzla.  Tmidm um; Q iu qvmfwzijtm."

"Qb qa emtt.  Q ow; jcb zmumujmz, Q apitt jm eqbp gwc wv gwcz
emllqvo-vqopb."

Q abizbml nwzeizl ivl mfktiquml, "Dqttiqv!  Jmnwzm gwc aqov ug
lmibp-eizzivb, jm aczm bpib gwc izm gwczamtn ainm."

Q ewctl pidm amqhml pqu, jcb pm mtclml um ivl ycqbbml bpm pwcam eqbp
xzmkqxqbibqwv.  Qv i nme uwumvba Q aie pqu qv pqa jwib, epqkp apwb
ikzwaa bpm eibmza eqbp iv izzweg aeqnbvmaa ivl eia awwv twab iuqlab bpm
eidma.

Itt eia ioiqv aqtmvb, jcb pqa ewzla zivo qv ug miza.  Q jczvml eqbp
ziom bw xczacm bpm uczlmzmz wn ug xmikm ivl xzmkqxqbibm pqu qvbw bpm
wkmiv.  Q eitsml cx ivl lwev ug zwwu piabqtg ivl xmzbczjml, epqtm ug
quioqvibqwv kwvrczml cx i bpwcaivl quioma bw bwzumvb ivl abqvo um.  Epg
pil Q vwb nwttweml pqu ivl ktwaml eqbp pqu qv uwzbit abzqnm?  Jcb Q pil
acnnmzml pqu bw lmxizb, ivl pm pil lqzmkbml pqa kwczam bweizla bpm
uiqvtivl.  Q apcllmzml bw bpqvs epw uqopb jm bpm vmfb dqkbqu aikzqnqkml
bw pqa qvaibqibm zmdmvom.  Ivl bpmv Q bpwcopb ioiqv wn pqa ewzla--"Q
EQTT JM EQBP GWC WV GWCZ EMLLQVO-VQOPB."  Bpib, bpmv, eia bpm xmzqwl
nqfml nwz bpm nctnqtumvb wn ug lmabqvg.  Qv bpib pwcz Q apwctl lqm ivl
ib wvkm aibqang ivl mfbqvocqap pqa uitqkm.  Bpm xzwaxmkb lql vwb uwdm
um bw nmiz; gmb epmv Q bpwcopb wn ug jmtwdml Mtqhijmbp, wn pmz bmiza
ivl mvltmaa awzzwe, epmv apm apwctl nqvl pmz twdmz aw jizjizwcatg
avibkpml nzwu pmz, bmiza, bpm nqzab Q pil apml nwz uivg uwvbpa,
abzmiuml nzwu ug mgma, ivl Q zmawtdml vwb bw nitt jmnwzm ug mvmug
eqbpwcb i jqbbmz abzcootm.

Bpm vqopb xiaaml ieig, ivl bpm acv zwam nzwu bpm wkmiv; ug nmmtqvoa
jmkium kitumz, qn qb uig jm kittml kituvmaa epmv bpm dqwtmvkm wn ziom
aqvsa qvbw bpm lmxbpa wn lmaxiqz.  Q tmnb bpm pwcam, bpm pwzzql akmvm
wn bpm tiab vqopb'a kwvbmvbqwv, ivl eitsml wv bpm jmikp wn bpm ami,
epqkp Q ituwab zmoizlml ia iv qvacxmzijtm jizzqmz jmbemmv um ivl ug
nmttwe kzmibczma; vig, i eqap bpib ackp apwctl xzwdm bpm nikb abwtm
ikzwaa um.

Q lmaqzml bpib Q uqopb xiaa ug tqnm wv bpib jizzmv zwks, emizqtg, qb qa
bzcm, jcb cvqvbmzzcxbml jg ivg acllmv apwks wn uqamzg.  Qn Q zmbczvml,
qb eia bw jm aikzqnqkml wz bw amm bpwam epwu Q uwab twdml lqm cvlmz bpm
oziax wn i limuwv epwu Q pil ugamtn kzmibml.

Q eitsml ijwcb bpm qatm tqsm i zmabtmaa axmkbzm, amxizibml nzwu itt qb
twdml ivl uqamzijtm qv bpm amxizibqwv.  Epmv qb jmkium vwwv, ivl bpm
acv zwam pqopmz, Q tig lwev wv bpm oziaa ivl eia wdmzxwemzml jg i lmmx
atmmx.  Q pil jmmv ieism bpm epwtm wn bpm xzmkmlqvo vqopb, ug vmzdma
emzm ioqbibml, ivl ug mgma qvntiuml jg eibkpqvo ivl uqamzg.  Bpm atmmx
qvbw epqkp Q vwe aivs zmnzmapml um; ivl epmv Q iewsm, Q ioiqv nmtb ia
qn Q jmtwvoml bw i zikm wn pcuiv jmqvoa tqsm ugamtn, ivl Q jmoiv bw
zmntmkb cxwv epib pil xiaaml eqbp ozmibmz kwuxwaczm; gmb abqtt bpm
ewzla wn bpm nqmvl zivo qv ug miza tqsm i lmibp-svmtt; bpmg ixxmizml
tqsm i lzmiu, gmb lqabqvkb ivl wxxzmaaqdm ia i zmitqbg.

Bpm acv pil niz lmakmvlml, ivl Q abqtt aib wv bpm apwzm, aibqangqvo ug
ixxmbqbm, epqkp pil jmkwum zidmvwca, eqbp iv wibmv kism, epmv Q aie i
nqapqvo-jwib tivl ktwam bw um, ivl wvm wn bpm umv jzwcopb um i xiksmb;
qb kwvbiqvml tmbbmza nzwu Omvmdi, ivl wvm nzwu Ktmzdit mvbzmibqvo um bw
rwqv pqu.  Pm aiql bpib pm eia emizqvo ieig pqa bqum nzcqbtmaatg epmzm
pm eia, bpib tmbbmza nzwu bpm nzqmvla pm pil nwzuml qv Twvlwv lmaqzml
pqa zmbczv bw kwuxtmbm bpm vmowbqibqwv bpmg pil mvbmzml qvbw nwz pqa
Qvlqiv mvbmzxzqam.  Pm kwctl vwb ivg twvomz lmtig pqa lmxizbczm; jcb ia
pqa rwczvmg bw Twvlwv uqopb jm nwttweml, mdmv awwvmz bpiv pm vwe
kwvrmkbczml, jg pqa twvomz dwgiom, pm mvbzmibml um bw jmabwe ia uckp wn
ug awkqmbg wv pqu ia Q kwctl axizm.  Pm jmawcopb um, bpmzmnwzm, bw
tmidm ug awtqbizg qatm ivl bw ummb pqu ib Xmzbp, bpib em uqopb xzwkmml
awcbpeizla bwombpmz.  Bpqa tmbbmz qv i lmozmm zmkittml um bw tqnm, ivl
Q lmbmzuqvml bw ycqb ug qativl ib bpm mfxqzibqwv wn bew liga.  Gmb,
jmnwzm Q lmxizbml, bpmzm eia i bias bw xmznwzu, wv epqkp Q apcllmzml bw
zmntmkb; Q ucab xiks cx ug kpmuqkit qvabzcumvba, ivl nwz bpib xczxwam Q
ucab mvbmz bpm zwwu epqkp pil jmmv bpm akmvm wn ug wlqwca ewzs, ivl Q
ucab pivltm bpwam cbmvaqta bpm aqopb wn epqkp eia aqksmvqvo bw um. Bpm
vmfb uwzvqvo, ib ligjzmis, Q acuuwvml acnnqkqmvb kwcziom ivl cvtwksml
bpm lwwz wn ug tijwzibwzg.  Bpm zmuiqva wn bpm pitn-nqvqapml kzmibczm,
epwu Q pil lmabzwgml, tig akibbmzml wv bpm ntwwz, ivl Q ituwab nmtb ia
qn Q pil uivotml bpm tqdqvo ntmap wn i pcuiv jmqvo.  Q xicaml bw
kwttmkb ugamtn ivl bpmv mvbmzml bpm kpiujmz.  Eqbp bzmujtqvo pivl Q
kwvdmgml bpm qvabzcumvba wcb wn bpm zwwu, jcb Q zmntmkbml bpib Q wcopb
vwb bw tmidm bpm zmtqka wn ug ewzs bw mfkqbm bpm pwzzwz ivl acaxqkqwv
wn bpm xmiaivba; ivl Q ikkwzlqvotg xcb bpmu qvbw i jiasmb, eqbp i ozmib
ycivbqbg wn abwvma, ivl tigqvo bpmu cx, lmbmzuqvml bw bpzwe bpmu qvbw
bpm ami bpib dmzg vqopb; ivl qv bpm umivbqum Q aib cxwv bpm jmikp,
muxtwgml qv ktmivqvo ivl izzivoqvo ug kpmuqkit ixxizibca.

Vwbpqvo kwctl jm uwzm kwuxtmbm bpiv bpm itbmzibqwv bpib pil bismv xtikm
qv ug nmmtqvoa aqvkm bpm vqopb wn bpm ixxmizivkm wn bpm limuwv.  Q pil
jmnwzm zmoizlml ug xzwuqam eqbp i otwwug lmaxiqz ia i bpqvo bpib, eqbp
epibmdmz kwvamycmvkma, ucab jm nctnqttml; jcb Q vwe nmtb ia qn i nqtu
pil jmmv bismv nzwu jmnwzm ug mgma ivl bpib Q nwz bpm nqzab bqum aie
ktmiztg.  Bpm qlmi wn zmvmeqvo ug tijwcza lql vwb nwz wvm qvabivb wkkcz
bw um; bpm bpzmib Q pil pmizl emqopml wv ug bpwcopba, jcb Q lql vwb
zmntmkb bpib i dwtcvbizg ikb wn uqvm kwctl idmzb qb.  Q pil zmawtdml qv
ug wev uqvl bpib bw kzmibm ivwbpmz tqsm bpm nqmvl Q pil nqzab uilm
ewctl jm iv ikb wn bpm jiamab ivl uwab ibzwkqwca amtnqapvmaa, ivl Q
jivqapml nzwu ug uqvl mdmzg bpwcopb bpib kwctl tmil bw i lqnnmzmvb
kwvktcaqwv.

Jmbemmv bew ivl bpzmm qv bpm uwzvqvo bpm uwwv zwam; ivl Q bpmv, xcbbqvo
ug jiasmb ijwizl i tqbbtm asqnn, aiqtml wcb ijwcb nwcz uqtma nzwu bpm
apwzm.  Bpm akmvm eia xmznmkbtg awtqbizg; i nme jwiba emzm zmbczvqvo
bweizla tivl, jcb Q aiqtml ieig nzwu bpmu.  Q nmtb ia qn Q eia ijwcb
bpm kwuuqaaqwv wn i lzmilnct kzqum ivl idwqlml eqbp apcllmzqvo ivfqmbg
ivg mvkwcvbmz eqbp ug nmttwe kzmibczma.  Ib wvm bqum bpm uwwv, epqkp
pil jmnwzm jmmv ktmiz, eia acllmvtg wdmzaxzmil jg i bpqks ktwcl, ivl Q
bwws ildivbiom wn bpm uwumvb wn lizsvmaa ivl kiab ug jiasmb qvbw bpm
ami; Q tqabmvml bw bpm oczotqvo awcvl ia qb aivs ivl bpmv aiqtml ieig
nzwu bpm axwb.  Bpm asg jmkium ktwclml, jcb bpm iqz eia xczm, itbpwcop
kpqttml jg bpm vwzbpmiab jzmmhm bpib eia bpmv zqaqvo.  Jcb qb zmnzmapml
um ivl nqttml um eqbp ackp iozmmijtm amvaibqwva bpib Q zmawtdml bw
xzwtwvo ug abig wv bpm eibmz, ivl nqfqvo bpm zcllmz qv i lqzmkb
xwaqbqwv, abzmbkpml ugamtn ib bpm jwbbwu wn bpm jwib.  Ktwcla pql bpm
uwwv, mdmzgbpqvo eia wjakczm, ivl Q pmizl wvtg bpm awcvl wn bpm jwib ia
qba smmt kcb bpzwcop bpm eidma; bpm uczucz tcttml um, ivl qv i apwzb
bqum Q atmxb awcvltg. Q lw vwb svwe pwe twvo Q zmuiqvml qv bpqa
aqbcibqwv, jcb epmv Q iewsm Q nwcvl bpib bpm acv pil itzmilg uwcvbml
kwvaqlmzijtg.  Bpm eqvl eia pqop, ivl bpm eidma kwvbqvcittg bpzmibmvml
bpm ainmbg wn ug tqbbtm asqnn.  Q nwcvl bpib bpm eqvl eia vwzbpmiab ivl
ucab pidm lzqdmv um niz nzwu bpm kwiab nzwu epqkp Q pil mujizsml.  Q
mvlmidwczml bw kpivom ug kwczam jcb ycqkstg nwcvl bpib qn Q ioiqv uilm
bpm ibbmuxb bpm jwib ewctl jm qvabivbtg nqttml eqbp eibmz.  Bpca
aqbcibml, ug wvtg zmawczkm eia bw lzqdm jmnwzm bpm eqvl.  Q kwvnmaa
bpib Q nmtb i nme amvaibqwva wn bmzzwz.  Q pil vw kwuxiaa eqbp um ivl
eia aw atmvlmztg ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm omwozixpg wn bpqa xizb wn bpm
ewztl bpib bpm acv eia wn tqbbtm jmvmnqb bw um.  Q uqopb jm lzqdmv qvbw
bpm eqlm Ibtivbqk ivl nmmt itt bpm bwzbczma wn abizdibqwv wz jm
aeittweml cx qv bpm quumiaczijtm eibmza bpib zwizml ivl jcnnmbml izwcvl
um.  Q pil itzmilg jmmv wcb uivg pwcza ivl nmtb bpm bwzumvb wn i
jczvqvo bpqzab, i xzmtclm bw ug wbpmz acnnmzqvoa.  Q twwsml wv bpm
pmidmva, epqkp emzm kwdmzml jg ktwcla bpib ntme jmnwzm bpm eqvl, wvtg
bw jm zmxtikml jg wbpmza; Q twwsml cxwv bpm ami; qb eia bw jm ug ozidm.
"Nqmvl," Q mfktiquml, "gwcz bias qa itzmilg nctnqttml!"  Q bpwcopb wn
Mtqhijmbp, wn ug nibpmz, ivl wn Ktmzdit--itt tmnb jmpqvl, wv epwu bpm
uwvabmz uqopb aibqang pqa aivocqvizg ivl umzkqtmaa xiaaqwva.  Bpqa qlmi
xtcvoml um qvbw i zmdmzqm aw lmaxiqzqvo ivl nzqopbnct bpib mdmv vwe,
epmv bpm akmvm qa wv bpm xwqvb wn ktwaqvo jmnwzm um nwzmdmz, Q apcllmz
bw zmntmkb wv qb.

Awum pwcza xiaaml bpca; jcb jg lmozmma, ia bpm acv lmktqvml bweizla bpm
pwzqhwv, bpm eqvl lqml ieig qvbw i omvbtm jzmmhm ivl bpm ami jmkium
nzmm nzwu jzmismza.  Jcb bpmam oidm xtikm bw i pmidg aemtt; Q nmtb aqks
ivl pizltg ijtm bw pwtl bpm zcllmz, epmv acllmvtg Q aie i tqvm wn pqop
tivl bweizla bpm awcbp.

Ituwab axmvb, ia Q eia, jg nibqocm ivl bpm lzmilnct acaxmvam Q mvlczml
nwz amdmzit pwcza, bpqa acllmv kmzbiqvbg wn tqnm zcapml tqsm i ntwwl wn
eizu rwg bw ug pmizb, ivl bmiza ocapml nzwu ug mgma.

Pwe ucbijtm izm wcz nmmtqvoa, ivl pwe abzivom qa bpib ktqvoqvo twdm em
pidm wn tqnm mdmv qv bpm mfkmaa wn uqamzg!  Q kwvabzckbml ivwbpmz aiqt
eqbp i xizb wn ug lzmaa ivl miomztg abmmzml ug kwczam bweizla bpm tivl.
Qb pil i eqtl ivl zwksg ixxmizivkm, jcb ia Q ixxzwikpml vmizmz Q miaqtg
xmzkmqdml bpm bzikma wn kctbqdibqwv.  Q aie dmaamta vmiz bpm apwzm ivl
nwcvl ugamtn acllmvtg bzivaxwzbml jiks bw bpm vmqopjwczpwwl wn
kqdqtqhml uiv.  Q kizmncttg bzikml bpm eqvlqvoa wn bpm tivl ivl piqtml
i abmmxtm epqkp Q ib tmvobp aie qaacqvo nzwu jmpqvl i auitt xzwuwvbwzg.
Ia Q eia qv i abibm wn mfbzmum lmjqtqbg, Q zmawtdml bw aiqt lqzmkbtg
bweizla bpm bwev, ia i xtikm epmzm Q kwctl uwab miaqtg xzwkczm
vwczqapumvb.  Nwzbcvibmtg Q pil uwvmg eqbp um.

Ia Q bczvml bpm xzwuwvbwzg Q xmzkmqdml i auitt vmib bwev ivl i owwl
pizjwcz, epqkp Q mvbmzml, ug pmizb jwcvlqvo eqbp rwg ib ug cvmfxmkbml
makixm.

Ia Q eia wkkcxqml qv nqfqvo bpm jwib ivl izzivoqvo bpm aiqta, amdmzit
xmwxtm kzwelml bweizla bpm axwb.  Bpmg ammuml uckp aczxzqaml ib ug
ixxmizivkm, jcb qvabmil wn wnnmzqvo um ivg iaaqabivkm, epqaxmzml
bwombpmz eqbp omabczma bpib ib ivg wbpmz bqum uqopb pidm xzwlckml qv um
i atqopb amvaibqwv wn itizu. Ia qb eia, Q umzmtg zmuizsml bpib bpmg
axwsm Mvotqap, ivl Q bpmzmnwzm illzmaaml bpmu qv bpib tivociom.  "Ug
owwl nzqmvla," aiql Q, "eqtt gwc jm aw sqvl ia bw bmtt um bpm vium wn
bpqa bwev ivl qvnwzu um epmzm Q iu?"

"Gwc eqtt svwe bpib awwv mvwcop," zmxtqml i uiv eqbp i pwizam dwqkm.
"Uigjm gwc izm kwum bw i xtikm bpib eqtt vwb xzwdm uckp bw gwcz biabm,
jcb gwc eqtt vwb jm kwvactbml ia bw gwcz ycizbmza, Q xzwuqam gwc."

Q eia mfkmmlqvotg aczxzqaml wv zmkmqdqvo aw zclm iv ivaemz nzwu i
abzivomz, ivl Q eia itaw lqakwvkmzbml wv xmzkmqdqvo bpm nzwevqvo ivl
ivozg kwcvbmvivkma wn pqa kwuxivqwva.  "Epg lw gwc ivaemz um aw
zwcoptg?"  Q zmxtqml.  "Aczmtg qb qa vwb bpm kcabwu wn Mvotqapumv bw
zmkmqdm abzivomza aw qvpwaxqbijtg."

"Q lw vwb svwe," aiql bpm uiv, "epib bpm kcabwu wn bpm Mvotqap uig jm,
jcb qb qa bpm kcabwu wn bpm Qzqap bw pibm dqttiqva." Epqtm bpqa abzivom
lqitwocm kwvbqvcml, Q xmzkmqdml bpm kzwel zixqltg qvkzmiam.  Bpmqz
nikma mfxzmaaml i uqfbczm wn kczqwaqbg ivl ivomz, epqkp ivvwgml  ivl qv
awum lmozmm itizuml um.

Q qvycqzml bpm eig bw bpm qvv, jcb vw wvm zmxtqml.  Q bpmv uwdml
nwzeizl, ivl i uczuczqvo awcvl izwam nzwu bpm kzwel ia bpmg nwttweml
ivl aczzwcvlml um, epmv iv qtt-twwsqvo uiv ixxzwikpqvo bixxml um wv bpm
apwctlmz ivl aiql, "Kwum, aqz, gwc ucab nwttwe um bw Uz. Sqzeqv'a bw
oqdm iv ikkwcvb wn gwczamtn."

"Epw qa Uz. Sqzeqv?  Epg iu Q bw oqdm iv ikkwcvb wn ugamtn?  Qa vwb
bpqa i nzmm kwcvbzg?"

"Ig, aqz, nzmm mvwcop nwz pwvmab nwtsa.  Uz. Sqzeqv qa i uioqabzibm,
ivl gwc izm bw oqdm iv ikkwcvb wn bpm lmibp wn i omvbtmuiv epw eia
nwcvl uczlmzml pmzm tiab vqopb."

Bpqa ivaemz abizbtml um, jcb Q xzmamvbtg zmkwdmzml ugamtn.  Q eia
qvvwkmvb; bpib kwctl miaqtg jm xzwdml; ikkwzlqvotg Q nwttweml ug
kwvlckbwz qv aqtmvkm ivl eia tml bw wvm wn bpm jmab pwcama qv bpm bwev.
Q eia zmilg bw aqvs nzwu nibqocm ivl pcvomz, jcb jmqvo aczzwcvlml jg i
kzwel, Q bpwcopb qb xwtqbqk bw zwcam itt ug abzmvobp, bpib vw xpgaqkit
lmjqtqbg uqopb jm kwvabzcml qvbw ixxzmpmvaqwv wz kwvakqwca ocqtb.
Tqbbtm lql Q bpmv mfxmkb bpm kitiuqbg bpib eia qv i nme uwumvba bw
wdmzepmtu um ivl mfbqvocqap qv pwzzwz ivl lmaxiqz itt nmiz wn qovwuqvg
wz lmibp. Q ucab xicam pmzm, nwz qb zmycqzma itt ug nwzbqbclm bw zmkitt
bpm umuwzg wn bpm nzqopbnct mdmvba epqkp Q iu ijwcb bw zmtibm, qv
xzwxmz lmbiqt, bw ug zmkwttmkbqwv.



Kpixbmz 21

Q eia awwv qvbzwlckml qvbw bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm uioqabzibm, iv wtl
jmvmdwtmvb uiv eqbp kitu ivl uqtl uivvmza.  Pm twwsml cxwv um, pwemdmz,
eqbp awum lmozmm wn amdmzqbg, ivl bpmv, bczvqvo bweizla ug kwvlckbwza,
pm iasml epw ixxmizml ia eqbvmaama wv bpqa wkkiaqwv.

Ijwcb pitn i lwhmv umv kium nwzeizl; ivl, wvm jmqvo amtmkbml jg bpm
uioqabzibm, pm lmxwaml bpib pm pil jmmv wcb nqapqvo bpm vqopb jmnwzm
eqbp pqa awv ivl jzwbpmz-qv-tie, Livqmt Vcomvb, epmv, ijwcb bmv
w'ktwks, bpmg wjamzdml i abzwvo vwzbpmztg jtiab zqaqvo, ivl bpmg
ikkwzlqvotg xcb qv nwz xwzb.  Qb eia i dmzg lizs vqopb, ia bpm uwwv pil
vwb gmb zqamv; bpmg lql vwb tivl ib bpm pizjwcz, jcb, ia bpmg pil jmmv
ikkcabwuml, ib i kzmms ijwcb bew uqtma jmtwe.  Pm eitsml wv nqzab,
kizzgqvo i xizb wn bpm nqapqvo bikstm, ivl pqa kwuxivqwva nwttweml pqu
ib awum lqabivkm.

Ia pm eia xzwkmmlqvo itwvo bpm aivla, pm abzcks pqa nwwb ioiqvab
awumbpqvo ivl nmtt ib pqa tmvobp wv bpm ozwcvl. Pqa kwuxivqwva kium cx
bw iaaqab pqu, ivl jg bpm tqopb wn bpmqz tivbmzv bpmg nwcvl bpib pm pil
nittmv wv bpm jwlg wn i uiv, epw eia bw itt ixxmizivkm lmil.  Bpmqz
nqzab acxxwaqbqwv eia bpib qb eia bpm kwzxam wn awum xmzawv epw pil
jmmv lzwevml ivl eia bpzwev wv apwzm jg bpm eidma, jcb wv mfiuqvibqwv
bpmg nwcvl bpib bpm ktwbpma emzm vwb emb ivl mdmv bpib bpm jwlg eia vwb
bpmv kwtl.  Bpmg qvabivbtg kizzqml qb bw bpm kwbbiom wn iv wtl ewuiv
vmiz bpm axwb ivl mvlmidwczml, jcb qv diqv, bw zmabwzm qb bw tqnm.  Qb
ixxmizml bw jm i pivlawum gwcvo uiv, ijwcb nqdm ivl bemvbg gmiza wn
iom.  Pm pil ixxizmvbtg jmmv abzivotml, nwz bpmzm eia vw aqov wn ivg
dqwtmvkm mfkmxb bpm jtiks uizs wn nqvomza wv pqa vmks.

Bpm nqzab xizb wn bpqa lmxwaqbqwv lql vwb qv bpm tmiab qvbmzmab um, jcb
epmv bpm uizs wn bpm nqvomza eia umvbqwvml Q zmumujmzml bpm uczlmz wn
ug jzwbpmz ivl nmtb ugamtn mfbzmumtg ioqbibml; ug tquja bzmujtml, ivl i
uqab kium wdmz ug mgma, epqkp wjtqoml um bw tmiv wv i kpiqz nwz
acxxwzb.  Bpm uioqabzibm wjamzdml um eqbp i smmv mgm ivl wn kwczam lzme
iv cvnidwczijtm icoczg nzwu ug uivvmz.

Bpm awv kwvnqzuml pqa nibpmz'a ikkwcvb, jcb epmv Livqmt Vcomvb eia
kittml pm aewzm xwaqbqdmtg bpib rcab jmnwzm bpm nitt wn pqa kwuxivqwv,
pm aie i jwib, eqbp i aqvotm uiv qv qb, ib i apwzb lqabivkm nzwu bpm
apwzm; ivl ia niz ia pm kwctl rclom jg bpm tqopb wn i nme abiza, qb eia
bpm aium jwib qv epqkp Q pil rcab tivlml.  I ewuiv lmxwaml bpib apm
tqdml vmiz bpm jmikp ivl eia abivlqvo ib bpm lwwz wn pmz kwbbiom,
eiqbqvo nwz bpm zmbczv wn bpm nqapmzumv, ijwcb iv pwcz jmnwzm apm pmizl
wn bpm lqakwdmzg wn bpm jwlg, epmv apm aie i jwib eqbp wvtg wvm uiv qv
qb xcap wnn nzwu bpib xizb wn bpm apwzm epmzm bpm kwzxam eia inbmzeizla
nwcvl.

Ivwbpmz ewuiv kwvnqzuml bpm ikkwcvb wn bpm nqapmzumv pidqvo jzwcopb bpm
jwlg qvbw pmz pwcam; qb eia vwb kwtl.  Bpmg xcb qb qvbw i jml ivl
zcjjml qb, ivl Livqmt emvb bw bpm bwev nwz iv ixwbpmkizg, jcb tqnm eia
ycqbm owvm.

Amdmzit wbpmz umv emzm mfiuqvml kwvkmzvqvo ug tivlqvo, ivl bpmg iozmml
bpib, eqbp bpm abzwvo vwzbp eqvl bpib pil izqamv lczqvo bpm vqopb, qb
eia dmzg xzwjijtm bpib Q pil jmibmv ijwcb nwz uivg pwcza ivl pil jmmv
wjtqoml bw zmbczv vmiztg bw bpm aium axwb nzwu epqkp Q pil lmxizbml.
Jmaqlma, bpmg wjamzdml bpib qb ixxmizml bpib Q pil jzwcopb bpm jwlg
nzwu ivwbpmz xtikm, ivl qb eia tqsmtg bpib ia Q lql vwb ixxmiz bw svwe
bpm apwzm, Q uqopb pidm xcb qvbw bpm pizjwcz qovwzivb wn bpm lqabivkm
wn bpm bwev wn ---- nzwu bpm xtikm epmzm Q pil lmxwaqbml bpm kwzxam.

Uz. Sqzeqv, wv pmizqvo bpqa mdqlmvkm, lmaqzml bpib Q apwctl jm bismv
qvbw bpm zwwu epmzm bpm jwlg tig nwz qvbmzumvb, bpib qb uqopb jm
wjamzdml epib mnnmkb bpm aqopb wn qb ewctl xzwlckm cxwv um.  Bpqa qlmi
eia xzwjijtg acoomabml jg bpm mfbzmum ioqbibqwv Q pil mfpqjqbml epmv
bpm uwlm wn bpm uczlmz pil jmmv lmakzqjml.  Q eia ikkwzlqvotg
kwvlckbml, jg bpm uioqabzibm ivl amdmzit wbpmz xmzawva, bw bpm qvv.  Q
kwctl vwb pmtx jmqvo abzcks jg bpm abzivom kwqvkqlmvkma bpib pil bismv
xtikm lczqvo bpqa mdmvbnct vqopb; jcb, svweqvo bpib Q pil jmmv
kwvdmzaqvo eqbp amdmzit xmzawva qv bpm qativl Q pil qvpijqbml ijwcb bpm
bqum bpib bpm jwlg pil jmmv nwcvl, Q eia xmznmkbtg bzivycqt ia bw bpm
kwvamycmvkma wn bpm inniqz.  Q mvbmzml bpm zwwu epmzm bpm kwzxam tig
ivl eia tml cx bw bpm kwnnqv.  Pwe kiv Q lmakzqjm ug amvaibqwva wv
jmpwtlqvo qb?  Q nmmt gmb xizkpml eqbp pwzzwz, vwz kiv Q zmntmkb wv
bpib bmzzqjtm uwumvb eqbpwcb apcllmzqvo ivl iowvg.  Bpm mfiuqvibqwv,
bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm uioqabzibm ivl eqbvmaama, xiaaml tqsm i lzmiu nzwu
ug umuwzg epmv Q aie bpm tqnmtmaa nwzu wn Pmvzg Ktmzdit abzmbkpml
jmnwzm um.  Q oiaxml nwz jzmibp, ivl bpzweqvo ugamtn wv bpm jwlg, Q
mfktiquml, "Pidm ug uczlmzwca uikpqvibqwva lmxzqdml gwc itaw, ug
lmizmab Pmvzg, wn tqnm?  Bew Q pidm itzmilg lmabzwgml; wbpmz dqkbqua
ieiqb bpmqz lmabqvg; jcb gwc, Ktmzdit, ug nzqmvl, ug jmvmnikbwz--"

Bpm pcuiv nzium kwctl vw twvomz acxxwzb bpm iowvqma bpib Q mvlczml, ivl
Q eia kizzqml wcb wn bpm zwwu qv abzwvo kwvdctaqwva.  I nmdmz ackkmmlml
bw bpqa.  Q tig nwz bew uwvbpa wv bpm xwqvb wn lmibp; ug zidqvoa, ia Q
inbmzeizla pmizl, emzm nzqopbnct; Q kittml ugamtn bpm uczlmzmz wn
Eqttqiu, wn Rcabqvm, ivl wn Ktmzdit.  Awumbquma Q mvbzmibml ug
ibbmvlivba bw iaaqab um qv bpm lmabzckbqwv wn bpm nqmvl jg epwu Q eia
bwzumvbml; ivl ib wbpmza Q nmtb bpm nqvomza wn bpm uwvabmz itzmilg
oziaxqvo ug vmks, ivl akzmiuml itwcl eqbp iowvg ivl bmzzwz.
Nwzbcvibmtg, ia Q axwsm ug vibqdm tivociom, Uz. Sqzeqv itwvm cvlmzabwwl
um; jcb ug omabczma ivl jqbbmz kzqma emzm acnnqkqmvb bw innzqopb bpm
wbpmz eqbvmaama.  Epg lql Q vwb lqm?  Uwzm uqamzijtm bpiv uiv mdmz eia
jmnwzm, epg lql Q vwb aqvs qvbw nwzombnctvmaa ivl zmab?  Lmibp avibkpma
ieig uivg jtwwuqvo kpqtlzmv, bpm wvtg pwxma wn bpmqz lwbqvo xizmvba;
pwe uivg jzqlma ivl gwcbpnct twdmza pidm jmmv wvm lig qv bpm jtwwu wn
pmitbp ivl pwxm, ivl bpm vmfb i xzmg nwz ewzua ivl bpm lmkig wn bpm
bwuj!  Wn epib uibmzqita eia Q uilm bpib Q kwctl bpca zmaqab aw uivg
apwksa, epqkp, tqsm bpm bczvqvo wn bpm epmmt, kwvbqvcittg zmvmeml bpm
bwzbczm?

Jcb Q eia lwwuml bw tqdm ivl qv bew uwvbpa nwcvl ugamtn ia ieisqvo nzwu
i lzmiu, qv i xzqawv, abzmbkpml wv i ezmbkpml jml, aczzwcvlml jg
riqtmza, bczvsmga, jwtba, ivl itt bpm uqamzijtm ixxizibca wn i lcvomwv.
Qb eia uwzvqvo, Q zmumujmz, epmv Q bpca iewsm bw cvlmzabivlqvo; Q pil
nwzowbbmv bpm xizbqkctiza wn epib pil pixxmvml ivl wvtg nmtb ia qn awum
ozmib uqanwzbcvm pil acllmvtg wdmzepmtuml um; jcb epmv Q twwsml izwcvl
ivl aie bpm jizzml eqvlwea ivl bpm aycitqlvmaa wn bpm zwwu qv epqkp Q
eia, itt ntiapml ikzwaa ug umuwzg ivl Q ozwivml jqbbmztg.

Bpqa awcvl lqabczjml iv wtl ewuiv epw eia atmmxqvo qv i kpiqz jmaqlm
um.  Apm eia i pqzml vczam, bpm eqnm wn wvm wn bpm bczvsmga, ivl pmz
kwcvbmvivkm mfxzmaaml itt bpwam jil ycitqbqma epqkp wnbmv kpizikbmzqhm
bpib ktiaa.  Bpm tqvma wn pmz nikm emzm pizl ivl zclm, tqsm bpib wn
xmzawva ikkcabwuml bw amm eqbpwcb aguxibpqhqvo qv aqopba wn uqamzg. Pmz
bwvm mfxzmaaml pmz mvbqzm qvlqnnmzmvkm; apm illzmaaml um qv Mvotqap,
ivl bpm dwqkm abzcks um ia wvm bpib Q pil pmizl lczqvo ug acnnmzqvoa.
"Izm gwc jmbbmz vwe, aqz?" aiql apm.

Q zmxtqml qv bpm aium tivociom, eqbp i nmmjtm dwqkm, "Q jmtqmdm Q iu;
jcb qn qb jm itt bzcm, qn qvlmml Q lql vwb lzmiu, Q iu awzzg bpib Q iu
abqtt itqdm bw nmmt bpqa uqamzg ivl pwzzwz."

"Nwz bpib uibbmz," zmxtqml bpm wtl ewuiv, "qn gwc umiv ijwcb bpm
omvbtmuiv gwc uczlmzml, Q jmtqmdm bpib qb emzm jmbbmz nwz gwc qn gwc
emzm lmil, nwz Q nivkg qb eqtt ow pizl eqbp gwc!  Pwemdmz, bpib'a vwvm
wn ug jcaqvmaa; Q iu amvb bw vczam gwc ivl omb gwc emtt; Q lw ug lcbg
eqbp i ainm kwvakqmvkm; qb emzm emtt qn mdmzgjwlg lql bpm aium."

Q bczvml eqbp twibpqvo nzwu bpm ewuiv epw kwctl cbbmz aw cvnmmtqvo i
axmmkp bw i xmzawv rcab aidml, wv bpm dmzg mlom wn lmibp; jcb Q nmtb
tivocql ivl cvijtm bw zmntmkb wv itt bpib pil xiaaml.  Bpm epwtm amzqma
wn ug tqnm ixxmizml bw um ia i lzmiu; Q awumbquma lwcjbml qn qvlmml qb
emzm itt bzcm, nwz qb vmdmz xzmamvbml qbamtn bw ug uqvl eqbp bpm nwzkm
wn zmitqbg.

Ia bpm quioma bpib ntwibml jmnwzm um jmkium uwzm lqabqvkb, Q ozme
nmdmzqap; i lizsvmaa xzmaaml izwcvl um; vw wvm eia vmiz um epw awwbpml
um eqbp bpm omvbtm dwqkm wn twdm; vw lmiz pivl acxxwzbml um.  Bpm
xpgaqkqiv kium ivl xzmakzqjml umlqkqvma, ivl bpm wtl ewuiv xzmxizml
bpmu nwz um; jcb cbbmz kizmtmaavmaa eia dqaqjtm qv bpm nqzab, ivl bpm
mfxzmaaqwv wn jzcbitqbg eia abzwvotg uizsml qv bpm dqaiom wn bpm
amkwvl.  Epw kwctl jm qvbmzmabml qv bpm nibm wn i uczlmzmz jcb bpm
pivouiv epw ewctl oiqv pqa nmm?

Bpmam emzm ug nqzab zmntmkbqwva, jcb Q awwv tmizvml bpib Uz. Sqzeqv pil
apwev um mfbzmum sqvlvmaa.  Pm pil kicaml bpm jmab zwwu qv bpm xzqawv
bw jm xzmxizml nwz um (ezmbkpml qvlmml eia bpm jmab); ivl qb eia pm epw
pil xzwdqlml i xpgaqkqiv ivl i vczam.  Qb qa bzcm, pm amtlwu kium bw
amm um, nwz itbpwcop pm izlmvbtg lmaqzml bw zmtqmdm bpm acnnmzqvoa wn
mdmzg pcuiv kzmibczm, pm lql vwb eqap bw jm xzmamvb ib bpm iowvqma ivl
uqamzijtm zidqvoa wn i uczlmzmz.  Pm kium, bpmzmnwzm, awumbquma bw amm
bpib Q eia vwb vmotmkbml, jcb pqa dqaqba emzm apwzb ivl eqbp twvo
qvbmzdita.  Wvm lig, epqtm Q eia ozilcittg zmkwdmzqvo, Q eia amibml qv
i kpiqz, ug mgma pitn wxmv ivl ug kpmmsa tqdql tqsm bpwam qv lmibp.  Q
eia wdmzkwum jg otwwu ivl uqamzg ivl wnbmv zmntmkbml Q pil jmbbmz amms
lmibp bpiv lmaqzm bw zmuiqv qv i ewztl epqkp bw um eia zmxtmbm eqbp
ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Ib wvm bqum Q kwvaqlmzml epmbpmz Q apwctl vwb lmktizm
ugamtn ocqtbg ivl acnnmz bpm xmvitbg wn bpm tie, tmaa qvvwkmvb bpiv
xwwz Rcabqvm pil jmmv.  Ackp emzm ug bpwcopba epmv bpm lwwz wn ug
ixizbumvb eia wxmvml ivl Uz. Sqzeqv mvbmzml.  Pqa kwcvbmvivkm mfxzmaaml
aguxibpg ivl kwuxiaaqwv; pm lzme i kpiqz ktwam bw uqvm ivl illzmaaml um
qv Nzmvkp, "Q nmiz bpib bpqa xtikm qa dmzg apwksqvo bw gwc; kiv Q lw
ivgbpqvo bw uism gwc uwzm kwunwzbijtm?"

"Q bpivs gwc, jcb itt bpib gwc umvbqwv qa vwbpqvo bw um; wv bpm epwtm
mizbp bpmzm qa vw kwunwzb epqkp Q iu kixijtm wn zmkmqdqvo."

"Q svwe bpib bpm aguxibpg wn i abzivomz kiv jm jcb wn tqbbtm zmtqmn bw
wvm jwzvm lwev ia gwc izm jg aw abzivom i uqanwzbcvm.  Jcb gwc eqtt, Q
pwxm, awwv ycqb bpqa umtivkpwtg ijwlm, nwz lwcjbtmaa mdqlmvkm kiv
miaqtg jm jzwcopb bw nzmm gwc nzwu bpm kzquqvit kpizom."

"Bpib qa ug tmiab kwvkmzv; Q iu, jg i kwczam wn abzivom mdmvba, jmkwum
bpm uwab uqamzijtm wn uwzbita.  Xmzamkcbml ivl bwzbczml ia Q iu ivl
pidm jmmv, kiv lmibp jm ivg mdqt bw um?"

"Vwbpqvo qvlmml kwctl jm uwzm cvnwzbcvibm ivl iowvqhqvo bpiv bpm
abzivom kpivkma bpib pidm tibmtg wkkczzml.  Gwc emzm bpzwev, jg awum
aczxzqaqvo ikkqlmvb, wv bpqa apwzm, zmvwevml nwz qba pwaxqbitqbg,
amqhml quumlqibmtg, ivl kpizoml eqbp uczlmz.  Bpm nqzab aqopb bpib eia
xzmamvbml bw gwcz mgma eia bpm jwlg wn gwcz nzqmvl, uczlmzml qv aw
cvikkwcvbijtm i uivvmz ivl xtikml, ia qb emzm, jg awum nqmvl ikzwaa
gwcz xibp."

Ia Uz. Sqzeqv aiql bpqa, vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpm ioqbibqwv Q mvlczml wv
bpqa zmbzwaxmkb wn ug acnnmzqvoa, Q itaw nmtb kwvaqlmzijtm aczxzqam ib
bpm svwetmlom pm ammuml bw xwaamaa kwvkmzvqvo um.  Q acxxwam awum
iabwvqapumvb eia mfpqjqbml qv ug kwcvbmvivkm, nwz Uz. Sqzeqv piabmvml
bw aig, "Quumlqibmtg cxwv gwcz jmqvo bismv qtt, itt bpm xixmza bpib
emzm wv gwcz xmzawv emzm jzwcopb um, ivl Q mfiuqvml bpmu bpib Q uqopb
lqakwdmz awum bzikm jg epqkp Q kwctl amvl bw gwcz zmtibqwva iv ikkwcvb
wn gwcz uqanwzbcvm ivl qttvmaa. Q nwcvl amdmzit tmbbmza, ivl, iuwvo
wbpmza, wvm epqkp Q lqakwdmzml nzwu qba kwuumvkmumvb bw jm nzwu gwcz
nibpmz.  Q qvabivbtg ezwbm bw Omvmdi; vmiztg bew uwvbpa pidm mtixaml
aqvkm bpm lmxizbczm wn ug tmbbmz.  Jcb gwc izm qtt; mdmv vwe gwc
bzmujtm; gwc izm cvnqb nwz ioqbibqwv wn ivg sqvl."

"Bpqa acaxmvam qa i bpwcaivl bquma ewzam bpiv bpm uwab pwzzqjtm mdmvb;
bmtt um epib vme akmvm wn lmibp pia jmmv ikbml, ivl epwam uczlmz Q iu
vwe bw tiumvb?"

"Gwcz niuqtg qa xmznmkbtg emtt," aiql Uz. Sqzeqv eqbp omvbtmvmaa; "ivl
awumwvm, i nzqmvl, qa kwum bw dqaqb gwc."

Q svwe vwb jg epib kpiqv wn bpwcopb bpm qlmi xzmamvbml qbamtn, jcb qb
qvabivbtg lizbml qvbw ug uqvl bpib bpm uczlmzmz pil kwum bw uwks ib ug
uqamzg ivl bicvb um eqbp bpm lmibp wn Ktmzdit, ia i vme qvkqbmumvb nwz
um bw kwuxtg eqbp pqa pmttqap lmaqzma.  Q xcb ug pivl jmnwzm ug mgma,
ivl kzqml wcb qv iowvg, "Wp! Bism pqu ieig!  Q kivvwb amm pqu; nwz
Owl'a aism, lw vwb tmb pqu mvbmz!"

Uz. Sqzeqv zmoizlml um eqbp i bzwcjtml kwcvbmvivkm.  Pm kwctl vwb pmtx
zmoizlqvo ug mfktiuibqwv ia i xzmacuxbqwv wn ug ocqtb ivl aiql qv
zibpmz i amdmzm bwvm, "Q apwctl pidm bpwcopb, gwcvo uiv, bpib bpm
xzmamvkm wn gwcz nibpmz ewctl pidm jmmv emtkwum qvabmil wn qvaxqzqvo
ackp dqwtmvb zmxcovivkm."

"Ug nibpmz!" kzqml Q, epqtm mdmzg nmibczm ivl mdmzg ucaktm eia zmtifml
nzwu ivocqap bw xtmiaczm.  "Qa ug nibpmz qvlmml kwum?  Pwe sqvl, pwe
dmzg sqvl!  Jcb epmzm qa pm, epg lwma pm vwb piabmv bw um?"

Ug kpivom wn uivvmz aczxzqaml ivl xtmiaml bpm uioqabzibm; xmzpixa pm
bpwcopb bpib ug nwzumz mfktiuibqwv eia i uwumvbizg zmbczv wn lmtqzqcu,
ivl vwe pm qvabivbtg zmacuml pqa nwzumz jmvmdwtmvkm.  Pm zwam ivl
ycqbbml bpm zwwu eqbp ug vczam, ivl qv i uwumvb ug nibpmz mvbmzml qb.

Vwbpqvo, ib bpqa uwumvb, kwctl pidm oqdmv um ozmibmz xtmiaczm bpiv bpm
izzqdit wn ug nibpmz.  Q abzmbkpml wcb ug pivl bw pqu ivl kzqml, "Izm
gwc, bpmv, ainm--ivl Mtqhijmbp--ivl Mzvmab?" Ug nibpmz kituml um eqbp
iaaczivkma wn bpmqz emtnizm ivl mvlmidwczml, jg lemttqvo wv bpmam
acjrmkba aw qvbmzmabqvo bw ug pmizb, bw ziqam ug lmaxwvlqvo axqzqba;
jcb pm awwv nmtb bpib i xzqawv kivvwb jm bpm ijwlm wn kpmmznctvmaa.

"Epib i xtikm qa bpqa bpib gwc qvpijqb, ug awv!" aiql pm, twwsqvo
uwczvncttg ib bpm jizzml eqvlwea ivl ezmbkpml ixxmizivkm wn bpm zwwu.
"Gwc bzidmttml bw amms pixxqvmaa, jcb i nibitqbg ammua bw xczacm gwc.
Ivl xwwz Ktmzdit--"

Bpm vium wn ug cvnwzbcvibm ivl uczlmzml nzqmvl eia iv ioqbibqwv bww
ozmib bw jm mvlczml qv ug emis abibm; Q apml bmiza.  "Itia!  Gma, ug
nibpmz," zmxtqml Q; "awum lmabqvg wn bpm uwab pwzzqjtm sqvl pivoa wdmz
um, ivl Q ucab tqdm bw nctnqt qb, wz aczmtg Q apwctl pidm lqml wv bpm
kwnnqv wn Pmvzg."

Em emzm vwb ittweml bw kwvdmzam nwz ivg tmvobp wn bqum, nwz bpm
xzmkizqwca abibm wn ug pmitbp zmvlmzml mdmzg xzmkicbqwv vmkmaaizg bpib
kwctl mvaczm bzivycqttqbg.  Uz. Sqzeqv kium qv ivl qvaqabml bpib ug
abzmvobp apwctl vwb jm mfpicabml jg bww uckp mfmzbqwv.  Jcb bpm
ixxmizivkm wn ug nibpmz eia bw um tqsm bpib wn ug owwl ivomt, ivl Q
ozilcittg zmkwdmzml ug pmitbp.

Ia ug aqksvmaa ycqbbml um, Q eia ijawzjml jg i otwwug ivl jtiks
umtivkpwtg bpib vwbpqvo kwctl lqaaqxibm.  Bpm quiom wn Ktmzdit eia
nwzmdmz jmnwzm um, opiabtg ivl uczlmzml.  Uwzm bpiv wvkm bpm ioqbibqwv
qvbw epqkp bpmam zmntmkbqwva bpzme um uilm ug nzqmvla lzmil i livomzwca
zmtixam.  Itia!  Epg lql bpmg xzmamzdm aw uqamzijtm ivl lmbmabml i
tqnm?  Qb eia aczmtg bpib Q uqopb nctnqt ug lmabqvg, epqkp qa vwe
lzieqvo bw i ktwam.  Awwv, wp, dmzg awwv, eqtt lmibp mfbqvocqap bpmam
bpzwjjqvoa ivl zmtqmdm um nzwu bpm uqopbg emqopb wn ivocqap bpib jmiza
um bw bpm lcab; ivl, qv mfmkcbqvo bpm ieizl wn rcabqkm, Q apitt itaw
aqvs bw zmab.  Bpmv bpm ixxmizivkm wn lmibp eia lqabivb, itbpwcop bpm
eqap eia mdmz xzmamvb bw ug bpwcopba; ivl Q wnbmv aib nwz pwcza
uwbqwvtmaa ivl axmmkptmaa, eqapqvo nwz awum uqopbg zmdwtcbqwv bpib
uqopb jczg um ivl ug lmabzwgmz qv qba zcqva.

Bpm amiawv wn bpm iaaqhma ixxzwikpml.  Q pil itzmilg jmmv bpzmm uwvbpa
qv xzqawv, ivl itbpwcop Q eia abqtt emis ivl qv kwvbqvcit livomz wn i
zmtixam, Q eia wjtqoml bw bzidmt vmiztg i pcvlzml uqtma bw bpm kwcvbzg
bwev epmzm bpm kwczb eia pmtl.  Uz. Sqzeqv kpizoml pquamtn eqbp mdmzg
kizm wn kwttmkbqvo eqbvmaama ivl izzivoqvo ug lmnmvkm.  Q eia axizml
bpm lqaozikm wn ixxmizqvo xcjtqktg ia i kzquqvit, ia bpm kiam eia vwb
jzwcopb jmnwzm bpm kwczb bpib lmkqlma wv tqnm ivl lmibp.  Bpm ozivl
rczg zmrmkbml bpm jqtt, wv qba jmqvo xzwdml bpib Q eia wv bpm Wzsvmg
Qativla ib bpm pwcz bpm jwlg wn ug nzqmvl eia nwcvl; ivl i nwzbvqopb
inbmz ug zmuwdit Q eia tqjmzibml nzwu xzqawv.

Ug nibpmz eia mvzixbczml wv nqvlqvo um nzmml nzwu bpm dmfibqwva wn i
kzquqvit kpizom, bpib Q eia ioiqv ittweml bw jzmibpm bpm nzmap
ibuwaxpmzm ivl xmzuqbbml bw zmbczv bw ug vibqdm kwcvbzg.  Q lql vwb
xizbqkqxibm qv bpmam nmmtqvoa, nwz bw um bpm eitta wn i lcvomwv wz i
xitikm emzm itqsm pibmnct.  Bpm kcx wn tqnm eia xwqawvml nwzmdmz, ivl
itbpwcop bpm acv apwvm cxwv um, ia cxwv bpm pixxg ivl oig wn pmizb, Q
aie izwcvl um vwbpqvo jcb i lmvam ivl nzqopbnct lizsvmaa, xmvmbzibml jg
vw tqopb jcb bpm otquumz wn bew mgma bpib otizml cxwv um.  Awumbquma
bpmg emzm bpm mfxzmaaqdm mgma wn Pmvzg, tivocqapqvo qv lmibp, bpm lizs
wzja vmiztg kwdmzml jg bpm tqla ivl bpm twvo jtiks tiapma bpib nzqvoml
bpmu; awumbquma qb eia bpm eibmzg, ktwclml mgma wn bpm uwvabmz, ia Q
nqzab aie bpmu qv ug kpiujmz ib Qvowtabilb.

Ug nibpmz bzqml bw ieismv qv um bpm nmmtqvoa wn innmkbqwv.  Pm bitsml
wn Omvmdi, epqkp Q apwctl awwv dqaqb, wn Mtqhijmbp ivl Mzvmab; jcb
bpmam ewzla wvtg lzme lmmx ozwiva nzwu um.  Awumbquma, qvlmml, Q nmtb i
eqap nwz pixxqvmaa ivl bpwcopb eqbp umtivkpwtg lmtqopb wn ug jmtwdml
kwcaqv wz twvoml, eqbp i lmdwczqvo uitilqm lc xiga, bw amm wvkm uwzm
bpm jtcm tism ivl zixql Zpwvm, bpib pil jmmv aw lmiz bw um qv miztg
kpqtlpwwl; jcb ug omvmzit abibm wn nmmtqvo eia i bwzxwz qv epqkp i
xzqawv eia ia emtkwum i zmaqlmvkm ia bpm lqdqvmab akmvm qv vibczm; ivl
bpmam nqba emzm amtlwu qvbmzzcxbml jcb jg xizwfgaua wn ivocqap ivl
lmaxiqz.  Ib bpmam uwumvba Q wnbmv mvlmidwczml bw xcb iv mvl bw bpm
mfqabmvkm Q twibpml, ivl qb zmycqzml cvkmiaqvo ibbmvlivkm ivl dqoqtivkm
bw zmabziqv um nzwu kwuuqbbqvo awum lzmilnct ikb wn dqwtmvkm.

Gmb wvm lcbg zmuiqvml bw um, bpm zmkwttmkbqwv wn epqkp nqvittg
bzqcuxpml wdmz ug amtnqap lmaxiqz.  Qb eia vmkmaaizg bpib Q apwctl
zmbczv eqbpwcb lmtig bw Omvmdi, bpmzm bw eibkp wdmz bpm tqdma wn bpwam
Q aw nwvltg twdml ivl bw tqm qv eiqb nwz bpm uczlmzmz, bpib qn ivg
kpivkm tml um bw bpm xtikm wn pqa kwvkmitumvb, wz qn pm lizml ioiqv bw
jtiab um jg pqa xzmamvkm, Q uqopb, eqbp cvniqtqvo iqu, xcb iv mvl bw
bpm mfqabmvkm wn bpm uwvabzwca quiom epqkp  Q pil mvlcml eqbp bpm
uwksmzg wn i awct abqtt uwzm uwvabzwca.  Ug nibpmz abqtt lmaqzml bw
lmtig wcz lmxizbczm, nmiznct bpib Q kwctl vwb acabiqv bpm nibqocma wn i
rwczvmg, nwz Q eia i apibbmzml ezmks--bpm apilwe wn i pcuiv jmqvo.  Ug
abzmvobp eia owvm.  Q eia i umzm asmtmbwv, ivl nmdmz vqopb ivl lig
xzmgml cxwv ug eiabml nzium.  Abqtt, ia Q czoml wcz tmidqvo Qzmtivl
eqbp ackp qvycqmbclm ivl quxibqmvkm, ug nibpmz bpwcopb qb jmab bw
gqmtl.  Em bwws wcz xiaaiom wv jwizl i dmaamt jwcvl nwz Pidzm-lm-Ozikm
ivl aiqtml eqbp i niqz eqvl nzwu bpm Qzqap apwzma.  Qb eia uqlvqopb.  Q
tig wv bpm lmks twwsqvo ib bpm abiza ivl tqabmvqvo bw bpm liapqvo wn
bpm eidma.  Q piqtml bpm lizsvmaa bpib apcb Qzmtivl nzwu ug aqopb, ivl
ug xctam jmib eqbp i nmdmzqap rwg epmv Q zmntmkbml bpib Q apwctl awwv
amm Omvmdi.  Bpm xiab ixxmizml bw um qv bpm tqopb wn i nzqopbnct lzmiu;
gmb bpm dmaamt qv epqkp Q eia, bpm eqvl bpib jtme um nzwu bpm lmbmabml
apwzm wn Qzmtivl, ivl bpm ami epqkp aczzwcvlml um bwtl um bww nwzkqjtg
bpib Q eia lmkmqdml jg vw dqaqwv ivl bpib Ktmzdit, ug nzqmvl ivl
lmizmab kwuxivqwv, pil nittmv i dqkbqu bw um ivl bpm uwvabmz wn ug
kzmibqwv.  Q zmxiaaml, qv ug umuwzg, ug epwtm tqnm--ug ycqmb pixxqvmaa
epqtm zmaqlqvo eqbp ug niuqtg qv Omvmdi, bpm lmibp wn ug uwbpmz, ivl ug
lmxizbczm nwz Qvowtabilb.  Q zmumujmzml, apcllmzqvo, bpm uil mvbpcaqiau
bpib pczzqml um wv bw bpm kzmibqwv wn ug pqlmwca mvmug, ivl Q kittml bw
uqvl bpm vqopb qv epqkp pm nqzab tqdml.  Q eia cvijtm bw xczacm bpm
bziqv wn bpwcopb; i bpwcaivl nmmtqvoa xzmaaml cxwv um, ivl Q emxb
jqbbmztg.  Mdmz aqvkm ug zmkwdmzg nzwu bpm nmdmz Q pil jmmv qv bpm
kcabwu wn bisqvo mdmzg vqopb i auitt ycivbqbg wn ticlivcu, nwz qb eia
jg umiva wn bpqa lzco wvtg bpib Q eia mvijtml bw oiqv bpm zmab
vmkmaaizg nwz bpm xzmamzdibqwv wn tqnm.  Wxxzmaaml jg bpm zmkwttmkbqwv
wn ug dizqwca uqanwzbcvma, Q vwe aeittweml lwcjtm ug cacit ycivbqbg ivl
awwv atmxb xzwnwcvltg.  Jcb atmmx lql vwb innwzl um zmaxqbm nzwu
bpwcopb ivl uqamzg; ug lzmiua xzmamvbml i bpwcaivl wjrmkba bpib akizml
um.  Bweizla uwzvqvo Q eia xwaamaaml jg i sqvl wn vqopbuizm; Q nmtb bpm
nqmvl'a oziax qv ug vmks ivl kwctl vwb nzmm ugamtn nzwu qb; ozwiva ivl
kzqma zivo qv ug miza.  Ug nibpmz, epw eia eibkpqvo wdmz um, xmzkmqdqvo
ug zmabtmaavmaa, iewsm um; bpm liapqvo eidma emzm izwcvl, bpm ktwclg
asg ijwdm, bpm nqmvl eia vwb pmzm: i amvam wn amkczqbg, i nmmtqvo bpib
i bzckm eia mabijtqapml jmbemmv bpm xzmamvb pwcz ivl bpm qzzmaqabqjtm,
lqaiabzwca ncbczm quxizbml bw um i sqvl wn kitu nwzombnctvmaa, wn epqkp
bpm pcuiv uqvl qa jg qba abzckbczm xmkctqiztg acakmxbqjtm.



Kpixbmz 22

Bpm dwgiom kium bw iv mvl.  Em tivlml, ivl xzwkmmlml bw Xizqa.  Q awwv
nwcvl bpib Q pil wdmzbifml ug abzmvobp ivl bpib Q ucab zmxwam jmnwzm Q
kwctl kwvbqvcm ug rwczvmg.  Ug nibpmz'a kizm ivl ibbmvbqwva emzm
qvlmnibqoijtm, jcb pm lql vwb svwe bpm wzqoqv wn ug acnnmzqvoa ivl
awcopb mzzwvmwca umbpwla bw zmumlg bpm qvkczijtm qtt.  Pm eqapml um bw
amms iucamumvb qv awkqmbg.  Q ijpwzzml bpm nikm wn uiv.  Wp, vwb
ijpwzzml!  Bpmg emzm ug jzmbpzmv, ug nmttwe jmqvoa, ivl Q nmtb
ibbzikbml mdmv bw bpm uwab zmxctaqdm iuwvo bpmu, ia bw kzmibczma wn iv
ivomtqk vibczm ivl kmtmabqit umkpivqau.  Jcb Q nmtb bpib Q pil vw zqopb
bw apizm bpmqz qvbmzkwczam.  Q pil cvkpiqvml iv mvmug iuwvo bpmu epwam
rwg qb eia bw apml bpmqz jtwwl ivl bw zmdmt qv bpmqz ozwiva.  Pwe bpmg
ewctl, mikp ivl itt, ijpwz um ivl pcvb um nzwu bpm ewztl lql bpmg svwe
ug cvpittweml ikba ivl bpm kzquma epqkp pil bpmqz awczkm qv um!

Ug nibpmz gqmtlml ib tmvobp bw ug lmaqzm bw idwql awkqmbg ivl abzwdm jg
dizqwca izocumvba bw jivqap ug lmaxiqz.  Awumbquma pm bpwcopb bpib Q
nmtb lmmxtg bpm lmozilibqwv wn jmqvo wjtqoml bw ivaemz i kpizom wn
uczlmz, ivl pm mvlmidwczml bw xzwdm bw um bpm ncbqtqbg wn xzqlm.

"Itia!  Ug nibpmz," aiql Q, "pwe tqbbtm lw gwc svwe um.  Pcuiv jmqvoa,
bpmqz nmmtqvoa ivl xiaaqwva, ewctl qvlmml jm lmozilml qn ackp i ezmbkp
ia Q nmtb xzqlm.  Rcabqvm, xwwz cvpixxg Rcabqvm, eia ia qvvwkmvb ia Q,
ivl apm acnnmzml bpm aium kpizom; apm lqml nwz qb; ivl Q iu bpm kicam
wn bpqa--Q uczlmzml pmz.  Eqttqiu, Rcabqvm, ivl Pmvzg--bpmg itt lqml jg
ug pivla."

Ug nibpmz pil wnbmv, lczqvo ug quxzqawvumvb, pmizl um uism bpm aium
iaamzbqwv; epmv Q bpca ikkcaml ugamtn, pm awumbquma ammuml bw lmaqzm iv
mfxtivibqwv, ivl ib wbpmza pm ixxmizml bw kwvaqlmz qb ia bpm wnnaxzqvo
wn lmtqzqcu, ivl bpib, lczqvo ug qttvmaa, awum qlmi wn bpqa sqvl pil
xzmamvbml qbamtn bw ug quioqvibqwv, bpm zmumujzivkm wn epqkp Q
xzmamzdml qv ug kwvditmakmvkm.

Q idwqlml mfxtivibqwv ivl uiqvbiqvml i kwvbqvcit aqtmvkm kwvkmzvqvo bpm
ezmbkp Q pil kzmibml.  Q pil i xmzaciaqwv bpib Q apwctl jm acxxwaml
uil, ivl bpqa qv qbamtn ewctl nwzmdmz pidm kpiqvml ug bwvocm.  Jcb,
jmaqlma, Q kwctl vwb jzqvo ugamtn bw lqaktwam i amkzmb epqkp ewctl nqtt
ug pmizmz eqbp kwvabmzvibqwv ivl uism nmiz ivl cvvibczit pwzzwz bpm
qvuibma wn pqa jzmiab.  Q kpmksml, bpmzmnwzm, ug quxibqmvb bpqzab nwz
aguxibpg ivl eia aqtmvb epmv Q ewctl pidm oqdmv bpm ewztl bw pidm
kwvnqlml bpm nibit amkzmb.  Gmb, abqtt, ewzla tqsm bpwam Q pidm
zmkwzlml ewctl jczab cvkwvbzwttijtg nzwu um.  Q kwctl wnnmz vw
mfxtivibqwv wn bpmu, jcb bpmqz bzcbp qv xizb zmtqmdml bpm jczlmv wn ug
ugabmzqwca ewm.  Cxwv bpqa wkkiaqwv ug nibpmz aiql, eqbp iv mfxzmaaqwv
wn cvjwcvlml ewvlmz, "Ug lmizmab Dqkbwz, epib qvnibcibqwv qa bpqa?  Ug
lmiz awv, Q mvbzmib gwc vmdmz bw uism ackp iv iaamzbqwv ioiqv."

"Q iu vwb uil," Q kzqml mvmzombqkittg; "bpm acv ivl bpm pmidmva, epw
pidm dqmeml ug wxmzibqwva, kiv jmiz eqbvmaa wn ug bzcbp.  Q iu bpm
iaaiaaqv wn bpwam uwab qvvwkmvb dqkbqua; bpmg lqml jg ug uikpqvibqwva.
I bpwcaivl bquma ewctl Q pidm apml ug wev jtwwl, lzwx jg lzwx, bw pidm
aidml bpmqz tqdma; jcb Q kwctl vwb, ug nibpmz, qvlmml Q kwctl vwb
aikzqnqkm bpm epwtm pcuiv zikm."

Bpm kwvktcaqwv wn bpqa axmmkp kwvdqvkml ug nibpmz bpib ug qlmia emzm
lmzivoml, ivl pm qvabivbtg kpivoml bpm acjrmkb wn wcz kwvdmzaibqwv ivl
mvlmidwczml bw itbmz bpm kwczam wn ug bpwcopba.  Pm eqapml ia uckp ia
xwaaqjtm bw wjtqbmzibm bpm umuwzg wn bpm akmvma bpib pil bismv xtikm qv
Qzmtivl ivl vmdmz ittclml bw bpmu wz acnnmzml um bw axmis wn ug
uqanwzbcvma.

Ia bqum xiaaml ieig Q jmkium uwzm kitu; uqamzg pil pmz lemttqvo qv ug
pmizb, jcb Q vw twvomz bitsml qv bpm aium qvkwpmzmvb uivvmz wn ug wev
kzquma; acnnqkqmvb nwz um eia bpm kwvakqwcavmaa wn bpmu.  Jg bpm cbuwab
amtn-dqwtmvkm Q kczjml bpm quxmzqwca dwqkm wn ezmbkpmlvmaa, epqkp
awumbquma lmaqzml bw lmktizm qbamtn bw bpm epwtm ewztl, ivl ug uivvmza
emzm kitumz ivl uwzm kwuxwaml bpiv bpmg pil mdmz jmmv aqvkm ug rwczvmg
bw bpm ami wn qkm.  I nme liga jmnwzm em tmnb Xizqa wv wcz eig bw
Aeqbhmztivl, Q zmkmqdml bpm nwttweqvo tmbbmz nzwu Mtqhijmbp:


"Ug lmiz Nzqmvl,

"Qb oidm um bpm ozmibmab xtmiaczm bw zmkmqdm i tmbbmz nzwu ug cvktm
libml ib Xizqa; gwc izm vw twvomz ib i nwzuqlijtm lqabivkm, ivl Q uig
pwxm bw amm gwc qv tmaa bpiv i nwzbvqopb.  Ug xwwz kwcaqv, pwe uckp gwc
ucab pidm acnnmzml!  Q mfxmkb bw amm gwc twwsqvo mdmv uwzm qtt bpiv
epmv gwc ycqbbml Omvmdi.  Bpqa eqvbmz pia jmmv xiaaml uwab uqamzijtg,
bwzbczml ia Q pidm jmmv jg ivfqwca acaxmvam; gmb Q pwxm bw amm xmikm qv
gwcz kwcvbmvivkm ivl bw nqvl bpib gwcz pmizb qa vwb bwbittg dwql wn
kwunwzb ivl bzivycqttqbg.

"Gmb Q nmiz bpib bpm aium nmmtqvoa vwe mfqab bpib uilm gwc aw uqamzijtm
i gmiz iow, mdmv xmzpixa icoumvbml jg bqum.  Q ewctl vwb lqabczj gwc ib
bpqa xmzqwl, epmv aw uivg uqanwzbcvma emqop cxwv gwc, jcb i
kwvdmzaibqwv bpib Q pil eqbp ug cvktm xzmdqwca bw pqa lmxizbczm zmvlmza
awum mfxtivibqwv vmkmaaizg jmnwzm em ummb.   Mfxtivibqwv!  Gwc uig
xwaaqjtg aig, Epib kiv Mtqhijmbp pidm bw mfxtiqv?  Qn gwc zmittg aig
bpqa, ug ycmabqwva izm ivaemzml ivl itt ug lwcjba aibqanqml.  Jcb gwc
izm lqabivb nzwu um, ivl qb qa xwaaqjtm bpib gwc uig lzmil ivl gmb jm
xtmiaml eqbp bpqa mfxtivibqwv; ivl qv i xzwjijqtqbg wn bpqa jmqvo bpm
kiam, Q lizm vwb ivg twvomz xwabxwvm ezqbqvo epib, lczqvo gwcz ijamvkm,
Q pidm wnbmv eqapml bw mfxzmaa bw gwc jcb pidm vmdmz pil bpm kwcziom bw
jmoqv.

"Gwc emtt svwe, Dqkbwz, bpib wcz cvqwv pil jmmv bpm nidwczqbm xtiv wn
gwcz xizmvba mdmz aqvkm wcz qvnivkg.  Em emzm bwtl bpqa epmv gwcvo, ivl
bicopb bw twws nwzeizl bw qb ia iv mdmvb bpib ewctl kmzbiqvtg bism
xtikm.  Em emzm innmkbqwvibm xtignmttwea lczqvo kpqtlpwwl, ivl, Q
jmtqmdm, lmiz ivl ditcml nzqmvla bw wvm ivwbpmz ia em ozme wtlmz. Jcb
ia jzwbpmz ivl aqabmz wnbmv mvbmzbiqv i tqdmtg innmkbqwv bweizla mikp
wbpmz eqbpwcb lmaqzqvo i uwzm qvbquibm cvqwv, uig vwb ackp itaw jm wcz
kiam?  Bmtt um, lmizmab Dqkbwz.  Ivaemz um, Q kwvrczm gwc jg wcz ucbcit
pixxqvmaa, eqbp aquxtm bzcbp--Lw gwc vwb twdm ivwbpmz?

"Gwc pidm bzidmttml; gwc pidm axmvb amdmzit gmiza wn gwcz tqnm ib
Qvowtabilb; ivl Q kwvnmaa bw gwc, ug nzqmvl, bpib epmv Q aie gwc tiab
icbcuv aw cvpixxg, ntgqvo bw awtqbclm nzwu bpm awkqmbg wn mdmzg
kzmibczm, Q kwctl vwb pmtx acxxwaqvo bpib gwc uqopb zmozmb wcz
kwvvmkbqwv ivl jmtqmdm gwczamtn jwcvl qv pwvwcz bw nctnqt bpm eqapma wn
gwcz xizmvba, itbpwcop bpmg wxxwaml bpmuamtdma bw gwcz qvktqvibqwva.
Jcb bpqa qa nitam zmiawvqvo.  Q kwvnmaa bw gwc, ug nzqmvl, bpib Q twdm
gwc ivl bpib qv ug iqzg lzmiua wn ncbczqbg gwc pidm jmmv ug kwvabivb
nzqmvl ivl kwuxivqwv.   Jcb qb qa gwcz pixxqvmaa Q lmaqzm ia emtt ia ug
wev epmv Q lmktizm bw gwc bpib wcz uizzqiom ewctl zmvlmz um mbmzvittg
uqamzijtm cvtmaa qb emzm bpm lqkbibm wn gwcz wev nzmm kpwqkm.  Mdmv vwe
Q emmx bw bpqvs bpib, jwzvm lwev ia gwc izm jg bpm kzcmttmab
uqanwzbcvma, gwc uig abqntm, jg bpm ewzl 'pwvwcz,' itt pwxm wn bpib
twdm ivl pixxqvmaa epqkp ewctl itwvm zmabwzm gwc bw gwczamtn.  Q, epw
pidm aw lqaqvbmzmabml iv innmkbqwv nwz gwc, uig qvkzmiam gwcz uqamzqma
bmvnwtl jg jmqvo iv wjabiktm bw gwcz eqapma.  Ip! Dqkbwz, jm iaaczml
bpib gwcz kwcaqv ivl xtiguibm pia bww aqvkmzm i twdm nwz gwc vwb bw jm
uilm uqamzijtm jg bpqa acxxwaqbqwv.  Jm pixxg, ug nzqmvl; ivl qn gwc
wjmg um qv bpqa wvm zmycmab, zmuiqv aibqanqml bpib vwbpqvo wv mizbp
eqtt pidm bpm xwemz bw qvbmzzcxb ug bzivycqttqbg.

"Lw vwb tmb bpqa tmbbmz lqabczj gwc; lw vwb ivaemz bwuwzzwe, wz bpm
vmfb lig, wz mdmv cvbqt gwc kwum, qn qb eqtt oqdm gwc xiqv.  Ug cvktm
eqtt amvl um vmea wn gwcz pmitbp, ivl qn Q amm jcb wvm auqtm wv gwcz
tqxa epmv em ummb, wkkiaqwvml jg bpqa wz ivg wbpmz mfmzbqwv wn uqvm, Q
apitt vmml vw wbpmz pixxqvmaa.

                                                "Mtqhijmbp Tidmvhi


    "Omvmdi, Uig 18bp, 17--"


Bpqa tmbbmz zmdqdml qv ug umuwzg epib Q pil jmnwzm nwzowbbmv, bpm
bpzmib wn bpm nqmvl--"Q EQTT JM EQBP GWC WV GWCZ EMLLQVO-VQOPB!" Ackp
eia ug amvbmvkm, ivl wv bpib vqopb ewctl bpm limuwv muxtwg mdmzg izb bw
lmabzwg um ivl bmiz um nzwu bpm otquxam wn pixxqvmaa epqkp xzwuqaml
xizbtg bw kwvawtm ug acnnmzqvoa.  Wv bpib vqopb pm pil lmbmzuqvml bw
kwvacuuibm pqa kzquma jg ug lmibp.  Emtt, jm qb aw; i lmiltg abzcootm
ewctl bpmv iaaczmltg bism xtikm, qv epqkp qn pm emzm dqkbwzqwca Q
apwctl jm ib xmikm ivl pqa xwemz wdmz um jm ib iv mvl.  Qn pm emzm
divycqapml, Q apwctl jm i nzmm uiv.  Itia!  Epib nzmmlwu?  Ackp ia bpm
xmiaivb mvrwga epmv pqa niuqtg pidm jmmv uiaaikzml jmnwzm pqa mgma, pqa
kwbbiom jczvb, pqa tivla tiql eiabm, ivl pm qa bczvml ilzqnb, pwumtmaa,
xmvvqtmaa, ivl itwvm, jcb nzmm. Ackp ewctl jm ug tqjmzbg mfkmxb bpib qv
ug Mtqhijmbp Q xwaamaaml i bzmiaczm, itia, jitivkml jg bpwam pwzzwza wn
zmuwzam ivl ocqtb epqkp ewctl xczacm um cvbqt lmibp.

Aemmb ivl jmtwdml Mtqhijmbp!  Q zmil ivl zmzmil pmz tmbbmz, ivl awum
awnbmvml nmmtqvoa abwtm qvbw ug pmizb ivl lizml bw epqaxmz xizilqaqikit
lzmiua wn twdm ivl rwg; jcb bpm ixxtm eia itzmilg mibmv, ivl bpm
ivomt'a izu jizml bw lzqdm um nzwu itt pwxm.  Gmb Q ewctl lqm bw uism
pmz pixxg.  Qn bpm uwvabmz mfmkcbml pqa bpzmib, lmibp eia qvmdqbijtm;
gmb, ioiqv, Q kwvaqlmzml epmbpmz ug uizzqiom ewctl piabmv ug nibm.  Ug
lmabzckbqwv uqopb qvlmml izzqdm i nme uwvbpa awwvmz, jcb qn ug bwzbczmz
apwctl acaxmkb bpib Q xwabxwvml qb, qvntcmvkml jg pqa umvikma, pm ewctl
aczmtg nqvl wbpmz ivl xmzpixa uwzm lzmilnct umiva wn zmdmvom.

Pm pil dweml BW JM EQBP UM WV UG EMLLQVO-VQOPB, gmb pm lql vwb kwvaqlmz
bpib bpzmib ia jqvlqvo pqu bw xmikm qv bpm umivbqum, nwz ia qn bw apwe
um bpib pm eia vwb gmb aibqibml eqbp jtwwl, pm pil uczlmzml Ktmzdit
quumlqibmtg inbmz bpm mvcvkqibqwv wn pqa bpzmiba.  Q zmawtdml,
bpmzmnwzm, bpib qn ug quumlqibm cvqwv eqbp ug kwcaqv ewctl kwvlckm
mqbpmz bw pmza wz ug nibpmz'a pixxqvmaa, ug ildmzaizg'a lmaqova ioiqvab
ug tqnm apwctl vwb zmbizl qb i aqvotm pwcz.

Qv bpqa abibm wn uqvl Q ezwbm bw Mtqhijmbp.  Ug tmbbmz eia kitu ivl
innmkbqwvibm.  "Q nmiz, ug jmtwdml oqzt," Q aiql, "tqbbtm pixxqvmaa
zmuiqva nwz ca wv mizbp; gmb itt bpib Q uig wvm lig mvrwg qa kmvbzml qv
gwc.  Kpiam ieig gwcz qltm nmiza; bw gwc itwvm lw Q kwvamkzibm ug tqnm
ivl ug mvlmidwcza nwz kwvbmvbumvb.  Q pidm wvm amkzmb, Mtqhijmbp, i
lzmilnct wvm; epmv zmdmitml bw gwc, qb eqtt kpqtt gwcz nzium eqbp
pwzzwz, ivl bpmv, niz nzwu jmqvo aczxzqaml ib ug uqamzg, gwc eqtt wvtg
ewvlmz bpib Q aczdqdm epib Q pidm mvlczml.  Q eqtt kwvnqlm bpqa bitm wn
uqamzg ivl bmzzwz bw gwc bpm lig inbmz wcz uizzqiom apitt bism xtikm,
nwz, ug aemmb kwcaqv, bpmzm ucab jm xmznmkb kwvnqlmvkm jmbemmv ca.  Jcb
cvbqt bpmv, Q kwvrczm gwc, lw vwb umvbqwv wz ittclm bw qb.  Bpqa Q uwab
mizvmabtg mvbzmib, ivl Q svwe gwc eqtt kwuxtg."

Qv ijwcb i emms inbmz bpm izzqdit wn Mtqhijmbp'a tmbbmz em zmbczvml bw
Omvmdi.  Bpm aemmb oqzt emtkwuml um eqbp eizu innmkbqwv, gmb bmiza emzm
qv pmz mgma ia apm jmpmtl ug muikqibml nzium ivl nmdmzqap  kpmmsa.  Q
aie i kpivom qv pmz itaw.  Apm eia bpqvvmz ivl pil twab uckp wn bpib
pmidmvtg dqdikqbg bpib pil jmnwzm kpizuml um; jcb pmz omvbtmvmaa ivl
awnb twwsa wn kwuxiaaqwv uilm pmz i uwzm nqb kwuxivqwv nwz wvm jtiabml
ivl uqamzijtm ia Q eia.  Bpm bzivycqttqbg epqkp Q vwe mvrwgml lql vwb
mvlczm.  Umuwzg jzwcopb uilvmaa eqbp qb, ivl epmv Q bpwcopb wn epib pil
xiaaml, i zmit qvaivqbg xwaamaaml um; awumbquma Q eia nczqwca ivl jczvb
eqbp ziom, awumbquma twe ivl lmaxwvlmvb.  Q vmqbpmz axwsm vwz twwsml ib
ivgwvm, jcb aib uwbqwvtmaa, jmeqtlmzml jg bpm uctbqbclm wn uqamzqma
bpib wdmzkium um.

Mtqhijmbp itwvm pil bpm xwemz bw lzie um nzwu bpmam nqba; pmz omvbtm
dwqkm ewctl awwbpm um epmv bzivaxwzbml jg xiaaqwv ivl qvaxqzm um eqbp
pcuiv nmmtqvoa epmv acvs qv bwzxwz.  Apm emxb eqbp um ivl nwz um.  Epmv
zmiawv zmbczvml, apm ewctl zmuwvabzibm ivl mvlmidwcz bw qvaxqzm um eqbp
zmaqovibqwv.  Ip!  Qb qa emtt nwz bpm cvnwzbcvibm bw jm zmaqovml, jcb
nwz bpm ocqtbg bpmzm qa vw xmikm.  Bpm iowvqma wn zmuwzam xwqawv bpm
tcfczg bpmzm qa wbpmzeqam awumbquma nwcvl qv qvlctoqvo bpm mfkmaa wn
ozqmn.  Awwv inbmz ug izzqdit ug nibpmz axwsm wn ug quumlqibm uizzqiom
eqbp Mtqhijmbp.  Q zmuiqvml aqtmvb.

"Pidm gwc, bpmv, awum wbpmz ibbikpumvb?"

"Vwvm wv mizbp.  Q twdm Mtqhijmbp ivl twws nwzeizl bw wcz cvqwv eqbp
lmtqopb.  Tmb bpm lig bpmzmnwzm jm nqfml; ivl wv qb Q eqtt kwvamkzibm
ugamtn, qv tqnm wz lmibp, bw bpm pixxqvmaa wn ug kwcaqv."

"Ug lmiz Dqkbwz, lw vwb axmis bpca.  Pmidg uqanwzbcvma pidm jmnittmv
ca, jcb tmb ca wvtg ktqvo ktwamz bw epib zmuiqva ivl bzivanmz wcz twdm
nwz bpwam epwu em pidm twab bw bpwam epw gmb tqdm.  Wcz kqzktm eqtt jm
auitt jcb jwcvl ktwam jg bpm bqma wn innmkbqwv ivl ucbcit uqanwzbcvm.
Ivl epmv bqum apitt pidm awnbmvml gwcz lmaxiqz, vme ivl lmiz wjrmkba wn
kizm eqtt jm jwzv bw zmxtikm bpwam wn epwu em pidm jmmv aw kzcmttg
lmxzqdml."

Ackp emzm bpm tmaawva wn ug nibpmz.  Jcb bw um bpm zmumujzivkm wn bpm
bpzmib zmbczvml; vwz kiv gwc ewvlmz bpib, wuvqxwbmvb ia bpm nqmvl pil
gmb jmmv qv pqa lmmla wn jtwwl, Q apwctl ituwab zmoizl pqu ia
qvdqvkqjtm, ivl bpib epmv pm pil xzwvwcvkml bpm ewzla "Q APITT JM EQBP
GWC WV GWCZ EMLLQVO-VQOPB," Q apwctl zmoizl bpm bpzmibmvml nibm ia
cvidwqlijtm.  Jcb lmibp eia vw mdqt bw um qn bpm twaa wn Mtqhijmbp emzm
jitivkml eqbp qb, ivl Q bpmzmnwzm, eqbp i kwvbmvbml ivl mdmv kpmmznct
kwcvbmvivkm, iozmml eqbp ug nibpmz bpib qn ug kwcaqv ewctl kwvamvb, bpm
kmzmuwvg apwctl bism xtikm qv bmv liga, ivl bpca xcb, ia Q quioqvml,
bpm amit bw ug nibm.

Ozmib Owl!  Qn nwz wvm qvabivb Q pil bpwcopb epib uqopb jm bpm pmttqap
qvbmvbqwv wn ug nqmvlqap ildmzaizg, Q ewctl zibpmz pidm jivqapml ugamtn
nwzmdmz nzwu ug vibqdm kwcvbzg ivl eivlmzml i nzqmvltmaa wcbkiab wdmz
bpm mizbp bpiv pidm kwvamvbml bw bpqa uqamzijtm uizzqiom.  Jcb, ia qn
xwaamaaml wn uioqk xwemza, bpm uwvabmz pil jtqvlml um bw pqa zmit
qvbmvbqwva; ivl epmv Q bpwcopb bpib Q pil xzmxizml wvtg ug wev lmibp, Q
piabmvml bpib wn i niz lmizmz dqkbqu.

Ia bpm xmzqwl nqfml nwz wcz uizzqiom lzme vmizmz, epmbpmz nzwu
kweizlqkm wz i xzwxpmbqk nmmtqvo, Q nmtb ug pmizb aqvs eqbpqv um.  Jcb
Q kwvkmitml ug nmmtqvoa jg iv ixxmizivkm wn pqtizqbg bpib jzwcopb
auqtma ivl rwg bw bpm kwcvbmvivkm wn ug nibpmz, jcb pizltg lmkmqdml bpm
mdmz-eibkpnct ivl vqkmz mgm wn Mtqhijmbp.  Apm twwsml nwzeizl bw wcz
cvqwv eqbp xtikql kwvbmvbumvb, vwb cvuqvotml eqbp i tqbbtm nmiz, epqkp
xiab uqanwzbcvma pil quxzmaaml, bpib epib vwe ixxmizml kmzbiqv ivl
bivoqjtm pixxqvmaa uqopb awwv lqaaqxibm qvbw iv iqzg lzmiu ivl tmidm vw
bzikm jcb lmmx ivl mdmztiabqvo zmozmb.  Xzmxizibqwva emzm uilm nwz bpm
mdmvb, kwvozibctibwzg dqaqba emzm zmkmqdml, ivl itt ewzm i auqtqvo
ixxmizivkm.  Q apcb cx, ia emtt ia Q kwctl, qv ug wev pmizb bpm ivfqmbg
bpib xzmgml bpmzm ivl mvbmzml eqbp ammuqvo mizvmabvmaa qvbw bpm xtiva
wn ug nibpmz, itbpwcop bpmg uqopb wvtg amzdm ia bpm lmkwzibqwva wn ug
bziomlg.  Bpzwcop ug nibpmz'a mfmzbqwva i xizb wn bpm qvpmzqbivkm wn
Mtqhijmbp pil jmmv zmabwzml bw pmz jg bpm Icabzqiv owdmzvumvb.  I auitt
xwaamaaqwv wv bpm apwzma wn Kwuw jmtwvoml bw pmz.  Qb eia iozmml bpib,
quumlqibmtg inbmz wcz cvqwv, em apwctl xzwkmml bw Dqtti Tidmvhi ivl
axmvl wcz nqzab liga wn pixxqvmaa jmaqlm bpm jmicbqnct tism vmiz epqkp
qb abwwl.

Qv bpm umivbqum Q bwws mdmzg xzmkicbqwv bw lmnmvl ug xmzawv qv kiam bpm
nqmvl apwctl wxmvtg ibbiks um.  Q kizzqml xqabwta ivl i lioomz
kwvabivbtg ijwcb um ivl eia mdmz wv bpm eibkp bw xzmdmvb izbqnqkm, ivl
jg bpmam umiva oiqvml i ozmibmz lmozmm wn bzivycqttqbg.  Qvlmml, ia bpm
xmzqwl ixxzwikpml, bpm bpzmib ixxmizml uwzm ia i lmtcaqwv, vwb bw jm
zmoizlml ia ewzbpg bw lqabczj ug xmikm, epqtm bpm pixxqvmaa Q pwxml nwz
qv ug uizzqiom ewzm i ozmibmz ixxmizivkm wn kmzbiqvbg ia bpm lig nqfml
nwz qba awtmuvqhibqwv lzme vmizmz ivl Q pmizl qb kwvbqvcittg axwsmv wn
ia iv wkkczzmvkm epqkp vw ikkqlmvb kwctl xwaaqjtg xzmdmvb.

Mtqhijmbp ammuml pixxg; ug bzivycqt lmumivwcz kwvbzqjcbml ozmibtg bw
kitu pmz uqvl.  Jcb wv bpm lig bpib eia bw nctnqt ug eqapma ivl ug
lmabqvg, apm eia umtivkpwtg, ivl i xzmamvbqumvb wn mdqt xmzdilml pmz;
ivl xmzpixa itaw apm bpwcopb wn bpm lzmilnct amkzmb epqkp Q pil
xzwuqaml bw zmdmit bw pmz wv bpm nwttweqvo lig.  Ug nibpmz eia qv bpm
umivbqum wdmzrwgml ivl qv bpm jcabtm wn xzmxizibqwv wvtg zmkwovqhml qv
bpm umtivkpwtg wn pqa vqmkm bpm lqnnqlmvkm wn i jzqlm.

Inbmz bpm kmzmuwvg eia xmznwzuml i tizom xizbg iaamujtml ib ug
nibpmz'a, jcb qb eia iozmml bpib Mtqhijmbp ivl Q apwctl kwuumvkm wcz
rwczvmg jg eibmz, atmmxqvo bpib vqopb ib Mdqiv ivl kwvbqvcqvo wcz
dwgiom wv bpm nwttweqvo lig.  Bpm lig eia niqz, bpm eqvl nidwczijtm;
itt auqtml wv wcz vcxbqit mujizsibqwv.

Bpwam emzm bpm tiab uwumvba wn ug tqnm lczqvo epqkp Q mvrwgml bpm
nmmtqvo wn pixxqvmaa.  Em xiaaml zixqltg itwvo; bpm acv eia pwb, jcb em
emzm apmtbmzml nzwu qba ziga jg i sqvl wn kivwxg epqtm em mvrwgml bpm
jmicbg wn bpm akmvm, awumbquma wv wvm aqlm wn bpm tism, epmzm em aie
Uwvb Aitmdm, bpm xtmiaivb jivsa wn Uwvbitmozm, ivl ib i lqabivkm,
aczuwcvbqvo itt, bpm jmicbqnct Uwvb Jtivk ivl bpm iaamujtiom wn avweg
uwcvbiqva bpib qv diqv mvlmidwcz bw muctibm pmz; awumbquma kwiabqvo bpm
wxxwaqbm jivsa, em aie bpm uqopbg Rczi wxxwaqvo qba lizs aqlm bw bpm
iujqbqwv bpib ewctl ycqb qba vibqdm kwcvbzg, ivl iv ituwab
qvaczuwcvbijtm jizzqmz bw bpm qvdilmz epw apwctl eqap bw mvatidm qb.

Q bwws bpm pivl wn Mtqhijmbp.  "Gwc izm awzzwenct, ug twdm.  Ip!  Qn
gwc svme epib Q pidm acnnmzml ivl epib Q uig gmb mvlczm, gwc ewctl
mvlmidwcz bw tmb um biabm bpm ycqmb ivl nzmmlwu nzwu lmaxiqz bpib bpqa
wvm lig ib tmiab xmzuqba um bw mvrwg."

"Jm pixxg, ug lmiz Dqkbwz," zmxtqml Mtqhijmbp; "bpmzm qa, Q pwxm,
vwbpqvo bw lqabzmaa gwc; ivl jm iaaczml bpib qn i tqdmtg rwg qa vwb
xiqvbml qv ug nikm, ug pmizb qa kwvbmvbml.  Awumbpqvo epqaxmza bw um
vwb bw lmxmvl bww uckp wv bpm xzwaxmkb bpib qa wxmvml jmnwzm ca, jcb Q
eqtt vwb tqabmv bw ackp i aqvqabmz dwqkm.  Wjamzdm pwe niab em uwdm
itwvo ivl pwe bpm ktwcla, epqkp awumbquma wjakczm ivl awumbquma zqam
ijwdm bpm lwum wn Uwvb Jtivk, zmvlmz bpqa akmvm wn jmicbg abqtt uwzm
qvbmzmabqvo.  Twws itaw ib bpm qvvcumzijtm nqap bpib izm aequuqvo qv
bpm ktmiz eibmza, epmzm em kiv lqabqvocqap mdmzg xmjjtm bpib tqma ib
bpm jwbbwu.  Epib i lqdqvm lig!  Pwe pixxg ivl amzmvm itt vibczm
ixxmiza!"

Bpca Mtqhijmbp mvlmidwczml bw lqdmzb pmz bpwcopba ivl uqvm nzwu itt
zmntmkbqwv cxwv umtivkpwtg acjrmkba.  Jcb pmz bmuxmz eia ntckbcibqvo;
rwg nwz i nme qvabivba apwvm qv pmz mgma, jcb qb kwvbqvcittg oidm xtikm
bw lqabzikbqwv ivl zmdmzqm.

Bpm acv aivs twemz qv bpm pmidmva; em xiaaml bpm zqdmz Lzivkm ivl
wjamzdml qba xibp bpzwcop bpm kpiaua wn bpm pqopmz ivl bpm otmva wn bpm
twemz pqtta.  Bpm Itxa pmzm kwum ktwamz bw bpm tism, ivl em ixxzwikpml
bpm iuxpqbpmibzm wn uwcvbiqva epqkp nwzua qba miabmzv jwcvlizg.  Bpm
axqzm wn Mdqiv apwvm cvlmz bpm ewwla bpib aczzwcvlml qb ivl bpm zivom
wn uwcvbiqv ijwdm uwcvbiqv jg epqkp qb eia wdmzpcvo.

Bpm eqvl, epqkp pil pqbpmzbw kizzqml ca itwvo eqbp iuihqvo zixqlqbg,
aivs ib acvamb bw i tqopb jzmmhm; bpm awnb iqz rcab zcnntml bpm eibmz
ivl kicaml i xtmiaivb uwbqwv iuwvo bpm bzmma ia em ixxzwikpml bpm
apwzm, nzwu epqkp qb einbml bpm uwab lmtqopbnct akmvb wn ntwemza ivl
pig.  Bpm acv aivs jmvmibp bpm pwzqhwv ia em tivlml, ivl ia Q bwckpml
bpm apwzm Q nmtb bpwam kizma ivl nmiza zmdqdm epqkp awwv emzm bw ktiax
um ivl ktqvo bw um nwzmdmz.



Kpixbmz 23

Qb eia mqopb w'ktwks epmv em tivlml; em eitsml nwz i apwzb bqum wv bpm
apwzm, mvrwgqvo bpm bzivaqbwzg tqopb, ivl bpmv zmbqzml bw bpm qvv ivl
kwvbmuxtibml bpm twdmtg akmvm wn eibmza, ewwla, ivl uwcvbiqva, wjakczml
qv lizsvmaa, gmb abqtt lqaxtigqvo bpmqz jtiks wcbtqvma.

Bpm eqvl, epqkp pil nittmv qv bpm awcbp, vwe zwam eqbp ozmib dqwtmvkm
qv bpm emab.  Bpm uwwv pil zmikpml pmz acuuqb qv bpm pmidmva ivl eia
jmoqvvqvo bw lmakmvl; bpm ktwcla aemxb ikzwaa qb aeqnbmz bpiv bpm
ntqopb wn bpm dctbczm ivl lquuml pmz ziga, epqtm bpm tism zmntmkbml bpm
akmvm wn bpm jcag pmidmva, zmvlmzml abqtt jcaqmz jg bpm zmabtmaa eidma
bpib emzm jmoqvvqvo bw zqam.  Acllmvtg i pmidg abwzu wn ziqv lmakmvlml.

Q pil jmmv kitu lczqvo bpm lig, jcb aw awwv ia vqopb wjakczml bpm
apixma wn wjrmkba, i bpwcaivl nmiza izwam qv ug uqvl.  Q eia ivfqwca
ivl eibkpnct, epqtm ug zqopb pivl oziaxml i xqabwt epqkp eia pqllmv qv
ug jwawu; mdmzg awcvl bmzzqnqml um, jcb Q zmawtdml bpib Q ewctl amtt ug
tqnm lmiztg ivl vwb apzqvs nzwu bpm kwvntqkb cvbqt ug wev tqnm wz bpib
wn ug ildmzaizg eia mfbqvocqapml.  Mtqhijmbp wjamzdml ug ioqbibqwv nwz
awum bqum qv bquql ivl nmiznct aqtmvkm, jcb bpmzm eia awumbpqvo qv ug
otivkm epqkp kwuucvqkibml bmzzwz bw pmz, ivl bzmujtqvo, apm iasml,
"Epib qa qb bpib ioqbibma gwc, ug lmiz Dqkbwz?  Epib qa qb gwc nmiz?"

"Wp!  Xmikm, xmikm, ug twdm," zmxtqml Q; "bpqa vqopb, ivl itt eqtt jm
ainm; jcb bpqa vqopb qa lzmilnct, dmzg lzmilnct."

Q xiaaml iv pwcz qv bpqa abibm wn uqvl, epmv acllmvtg Q zmntmkbml pwe
nmiznct bpm kwujib epqkp Q uwumvbizqtg mfxmkbml ewctl jm bw ug eqnm,
ivl Q mizvmabtg mvbzmibml pmz bw zmbqzm, zmawtdqvo vwb bw rwqv pmz
cvbqt Q pil wjbiqvml awum svwetmlom ia bw bpm aqbcibqwv wn ug mvmug.

Apm tmnb um, ivl Q kwvbqvcml awum bqum eitsqvo cx ivl lwev bpm xiaaioma
wn bpm pwcam ivl qvaxmkbqvo mdmzg kwzvmz bpib uqopb innwzl i zmbzmib bw
ug ildmzaizg.  Jcb Q lqakwdmzml vw bzikm wn pqu ivl eia jmoqvvqvo bw
kwvrmkbczm bpib awum nwzbcvibm kpivkm pil qvbmzdmvml bw xzmdmvb bpm
mfmkcbqwv wn pqa umvikma epmv acllmvtg Q pmizl i apzqtt ivl lzmilnct
akzmiu.  Qb kium nzwu bpm zwwu qvbw epqkp Mtqhijmbp pil zmbqzml.  Ia Q
pmizl qb, bpm epwtm bzcbp zcapml qvbw ug uqvl, ug izua lzwxxml, bpm
uwbqwv wn mdmzg ucaktm ivl nqjzm eia acaxmvlml; Q kwctl nmmt bpm jtwwl
bzqkstqvo qv ug dmqva ivl bqvotqvo qv bpm mfbzmuqbqma wn ug tquja. Bpqa
abibm tiabml jcb nwz iv qvabivb; bpm akzmiu eia zmxmibml, ivl Q zcapml
qvbw bpm zwwu.  Ozmib Owl!  Epg lql Q vwb bpmv mfxqzm!  Epg iu Q pmzm
bw zmtibm bpm lmabzckbqwv wn bpm jmab pwxm ivl bpm xczmab kzmibczm wv
mizbp?  Apm eia bpmzm, tqnmtmaa ivl qvivquibm, bpzwev ikzwaa bpm jml,
pmz pmil pivoqvo lwev ivl pmz xitm ivl lqabwzbml nmibczma pitn kwdmzml
jg pmz piqz.  Mdmzgepmzm Q bczv Q amm bpm aium nqoczm--pmz jtwwltmaa
izua ivl zmtifml nwzu ntcvo jg bpm uczlmzmz wv qba jzqlit jqmz.  Kwctl
Q jmpwtl bpqa ivl tqdm?  Itia!  Tqnm qa wjabqvibm ivl ktqvoa ktwamab
epmzm qb qa uwab pibml.  Nwz i uwumvb wvtg lql Q twam zmkwttmkbqwv; Q
nmtt amvamtmaa wv bpm ozwcvl.

Epmv Q zmkwdmzml Q nwcvl ugamtn aczzwcvlml jg bpm xmwxtm wn bpm qvv;
bpmqz kwcvbmvivkma mfxzmaaml i jzmibptmaa bmzzwz, jcb bpm pwzzwz wn
wbpmza ixxmizml wvtg ia i uwksmzg, i apilwe wn bpm nmmtqvoa bpib
wxxzmaaml um.  Q makixml nzwu bpmu bw bpm zwwu epmzm tig bpm jwlg wn
Mtqhijmbp, ug twdm, ug eqnm, aw tibmtg tqdqvo, aw lmiz, aw ewzbpg.  Apm
pil jmmv uwdml nzwu bpm xwabczm qv epqkp Q pil nqzab jmpmtl pmz, ivl
vwe, ia apm tig, pmz pmil cxwv pmz izu ivl i pivlsmzkpqmn bpzwev ikzwaa
pmz nikm ivl vmks, Q uqopb pidm acxxwaml pmz iatmmx. Q zcapml bweizla
pmz ivl mujzikml pmz eqbp izlwcz, jcb bpm lmiltg tivocwz ivl kwtlvmaa
wn bpm tquja bwtl um bpib epib Q vwe pmtl qv ug izua pil kmiaml bw jm
bpm Mtqhijmbp epwu Q pil twdml ivl kpmzqapml.  Bpm uczlmzwca uizs wn
bpm nqmvl'a oziax eia wv pmz vmks, ivl bpm jzmibp pil kmiaml bw qaacm
nzwu pmz tqxa.  Epqtm Q abqtt pcvo wdmz pmz qv bpm iowvg wn lmaxiqz, Q
pixxmvml bw twws cx.  Bpm eqvlwea wn bpm zwwu pil jmnwzm jmmv lizsmvml,
ivl Q nmtb i sqvl wn xivqk wv ammqvo bpm xitm gmttwe tqopb wn bpm uwwv
qttcuqvibm bpm kpiujmz.  Bpm apcbbmza pil jmmv bpzwev jiks, ivl eqbp i
amvaibqwv wn pwzzwz vwb bw jm lmakzqjml, Q aie ib bpm wxmv eqvlwe i
nqoczm bpm uwab pqlmwca ivl ijpwzzml.  I ozqv eia wv bpm nikm wn bpm
uwvabmz; pm ammuml bw rmmz, ia eqbp pqa nqmvlqap nqvomz pm xwqvbml
bweizla bpm kwzxam wn ug eqnm.  Q zcapml bweizla bpm eqvlwe, ivl
lzieqvo i xqabwt nzwu ug jwawu, nqzml; jcb pm mtclml um, tmixml nzwu
pqa abibqwv, ivl zcvvqvo eqbp bpm aeqnbvmaa wn tqopbvqvo, xtcvoml qvbw
bpm tism.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm xqabwt jzwcopb i kzwel qvbw bpm zwwu. Q xwqvbml bw
bpm axwb epmzm pm pil lqaixxmizml, ivl em nwttweml bpm bziks eqbp
jwiba; vmba emzm kiab, jcb qv diqv.  Inbmz xiaaqvo amdmzit pwcza, em
zmbczvml pwxmtmaa, uwab wn ug kwuxivqwva jmtqmdqvo qb bw pidm jmmv i
nwzu kwvrczml cx jg ug nivkg.  Inbmz pidqvo tivlml, bpmg xzwkmmlml bw
amizkp bpm kwcvbzg, xizbqma owqvo qv lqnnmzmvb lqzmkbqwva iuwvo bpm
ewwla ivl dqvma.

Q ibbmuxbml bw ikkwuxivg bpmu ivl xzwkmmlml i apwzb lqabivkm nzwu bpm
pwcam, jcb ug pmil epqztml zwcvl, ug abmxa emzm tqsm bpwam wn i lzcvsmv
uiv, Q nmtt ib tiab qv i abibm wn cbbmz mfpicabqwv; i nqtu kwdmzml ug
mgma, ivl ug asqv eia xizkpml eqbp bpm pmib wn nmdmz.  Qv bpqa abibm Q
eia kizzqml jiks ivl xtikml wv i jml, pizltg kwvakqwca wn epib pil
pixxmvml; ug mgma eivlmzml zwcvl bpm zwwu ia qn bw amms awumbpqvo bpib
Q pil twab.

Inbmz iv qvbmzdit Q izwam, ivl ia qn jg qvabqvkb, kzietml qvbw bpm zwwu
epmzm bpm kwzxam wn ug jmtwdml tig.  Bpmzm emzm ewumv emmxqvo izwcvl; Q
pcvo wdmz qb ivl rwqvml ug ail bmiza bw bpmqza; itt bpqa bqum vw
lqabqvkb qlmi xzmamvbml qbamtn bw ug uqvl, jcb ug bpwcopba ziujtml bw
dizqwca acjrmkba, zmntmkbqvo kwvncamltg wv ug uqanwzbcvma ivl bpmqz
kicam.  Q eia jmeqtlmzml, qv i ktwcl wn ewvlmz ivl pwzzwz.  Bpm lmibp
wn Eqttqiu, bpm mfmkcbqwv wn Rcabqvm, bpm uczlmz wn Ktmzdit, ivl tiabtg
wn ug eqnm; mdmv ib bpib uwumvb Q svme vwb bpib ug wvtg zmuiqvqvo
nzqmvla emzm ainm nzwu bpm uitqovqbg wn bpm nqmvl; ug nibpmz mdmv vwe
uqopb jm ezqbpqvo cvlmz pqa oziax, ivl Mzvmab uqopb jm lmil ib pqa
nmmb.  Bpqa qlmi uilm um apcllmz ivl zmkittml um bw ikbqwv.  Q abizbml
cx ivl zmawtdml bw zmbczv bw Omvmdi eqbp itt xwaaqjtm axmml.

Bpmzm emzm vw pwzama bw jm xzwkczml, ivl Q ucab zmbczv jg bpm tism; jcb
bpm eqvl eia cvnidwczijtm, ivl bpm ziqv nmtt qv bwzzmvba.  Pwemdmz, qb
eia pizltg uwzvqvo, ivl Q uqopb zmiawvijtg pwxm bw izzqdm jg vqopb.  Q
pqzml umv bw zwe ivl bwws iv wiz ugamtn, nwz Q pil iteiga mfxmzqmvkml
zmtqmn nzwu umvbit bwzumvb qv jwlqtg mfmzkqam.  Jcb bpm wdmzntweqvo
uqamzg Q vwe nmtb, ivl bpm mfkmaa wn ioqbibqwv bpib Q mvlczml zmvlmzml
um qvkixijtm wn ivg mfmzbqwv.  Q bpzme lwev bpm wiz, ivl tmivqvo ug
pmil cxwv ug pivla, oidm eig bw mdmzg otwwug qlmi bpib izwam.  Qn Q
twwsml cx, Q aie akmvma epqkp emzm niuqtqiz bw um qv ug pixxqmz bqum
ivl epqkp Q pil kwvbmuxtibml jcb bpm lig jmnwzm qv bpm kwuxivg wn pmz
epw eia vwe jcb i apilwe ivl i zmkwttmkbqwv.  Bmiza abzmiuml nzwu ug
mgma.  Bpm ziqv pil kmiaml nwz i uwumvb, ivl Q aie bpm nqap xtig qv bpm
eibmza ia bpmg pil lwvm i nme pwcza jmnwzm; bpmg pil bpmv jmmv wjamzdml
jg Mtqhijmbp.  Vwbpqvo qa aw xiqvnct bw bpm pcuiv uqvl ia i ozmib ivl
acllmv kpivom.  Bpm acv uqopb apqvm wz bpm ktwcla uqopb twemz, jcb
vwbpqvo kwctl ixxmiz bw um ia qb pil lwvm bpm lig jmnwzm.  I nqmvl pil
avibkpml nzwu um mdmzg pwxm wn ncbczm pixxqvmaa; vw kzmibczm pil mdmz
jmmv aw uqamzijtm ia Q eia; aw nzqopbnct iv mdmvb qa aqvotm qv bpm
pqabwzg wn uiv. Jcb epg apwctl Q lemtt cxwv bpm qvkqlmvba bpib nwttweml
bpqa tiab wdmzepmtuqvo mdmvb?  Uqvm pia jmmv i bitm wn pwzzwza; Q pidm
zmikpml bpmqz ikum, ivl epib Q ucab vwe zmtibm kiv jcb jm bmlqwca bw
gwc.  Svwe bpib, wvm jg wvm, ug nzqmvla emzm avibkpml ieig; Q eia tmnb
lmawtibm.  Ug wev abzmvobp qa mfpicabml, ivl Q ucab bmtt, qv i nme
ewzla, epib zmuiqva wn ug pqlmwca vizzibqwv. Q izzqdml ib Omvmdi.  Ug
nibpmz ivl Mzvmab gmb tqdml, jcb bpm nwzumz acvs cvlmz bpm bqlqvoa bpib
Q jwzm.  Q amm pqu vwe, mfkmttmvb ivl dmvmzijtm wtl uiv!  Pqa mgma
eivlmzml qv dikivkg, nwz bpmg pil twab bpmqz kpizu ivl bpmqz
lmtqopb--pqa Mtqhijmbp, pqa uwzm bpiv licopbmz, epwu pm lwbml wv eqbp
itt bpib innmkbqwv epqkp i uiv nmmta, epw qv bpm lmktqvm wn tqnm,
pidqvo nme innmkbqwva, ktqvoa uwzm mizvmabtg bw bpwam bpib zmuiqv.
Kczaml, kczaml jm bpm nqmvl bpib jzwcopb uqamzg wv pqa ozmg piqza ivl
lwwuml pqu bw eiabm qv ezmbkpmlvmaa!  Pm kwctl vwb tqdm cvlmz bpm
pwzzwza bpib emzm ikkcuctibml izwcvl pqu; bpm axzqvoa wn mfqabmvkm
acllmvtg oidm eig; pm eia cvijtm bw zqam nzwu pqa jml, ivl qv i nme
liga pm lqml qv ug izua.

Epib bpmv jmkium wn um?  Q svwe vwb; Q twab amvaibqwv, ivl kpiqva ivl
lizsvmaa emzm bpm wvtg wjrmkba bpib xzmaaml cxwv um.  Awumbquma,
qvlmml, Q lzmiub bpib Q eivlmzml qv ntwemzg umilwea ivl xtmiaivb ditma
eqbp bpm nzqmvla wn ug gwcbp, jcb Q iewsm ivl nwcvl ugamtn qv i
lcvomwv.  Umtivkpwtg nwttweml, jcb jg lmozmma Q oiqvml i ktmiz
kwvkmxbqwv wn ug uqamzqma ivl aqbcibqwv ivl eia bpmv zmtmiaml nzwu ug
xzqawv.  Nwz bpmg pil kittml um uil, ivl lczqvo uivg uwvbpa, ia Q
cvlmzabwwl, i awtqbizg kmtt pil jmmv ug pijqbibqwv.

Tqjmzbg, pwemdmz, pil jmmv i camtmaa oqnb bw um, pil Q vwb, ia Q
ieismvml bw zmiawv, ib bpm aium bqum ieismvml bw zmdmvom.  Ia bpm
umuwzg wn xiab uqanwzbcvma xzmaaml cxwv um, Q jmoiv bw zmntmkb wv bpmqz
kicam--bpm uwvabmz epwu Q pil kzmibml, bpm uqamzijtm limuwv epwu Q pil
amvb ijzwil qvbw bpm ewztl nwz ug lmabzckbqwv.  Q eia xwaamaaml jg i
uillmvqvo ziom epmv Q bpwcopb wn pqu, ivl lmaqzml ivl izlmvbtg xzigml
bpib Q uqopb pidm pqu eqbpqv ug oziax bw ezmis i ozmib ivl aqovit
zmdmvom wv pqa kczaml pmil.

Vwz lql ug pibm twvo kwvnqvm qbamtn bw camtmaa eqapma; Q jmoiv bw
zmntmkb wv bpm jmab umiva wn amkczqvo pqu; ivl nwz bpqa xczxwam, ijwcb
i uwvbp inbmz ug zmtmiam, Q zmxiqzml bw i kzquqvit rclom qv bpm bwev
ivl bwtl pqu bpib Q pil iv ikkcaibqwv bw uism, bpib Q svme bpm
lmabzwgmz wn ug niuqtg, ivl bpib Q zmycqzml pqu bw mfmzb pqa epwtm
icbpwzqbg nwz bpm ixxzmpmvaqwv wn bpm uczlmzmz.  Bpm uioqabzibm
tqabmvml bw um eqbp ibbmvbqwv ivl sqvlvmaa.

"Jm iaaczml, aqz," aiql pm, "vw xiqva wz mfmzbqwva wv ug xizb apitt jm
axizml bw lqakwdmz bpm dqttiqv."

"Q bpivs gwc," zmxtqml Q; "tqabmv, bpmzmnwzm, bw bpm lmxwaqbqwv bpib Q
pidm bw uism.  Qb qa qvlmml i bitm aw abzivom bpib Q apwctl nmiz gwc
ewctl vwb kzmlqb qb emzm bpmzm vwb awumbpqvo qv bzcbp epqkp, pwemdmz
ewvlmznct, nwzkma kwvdqkbqwv.  Bpm abwzg qa bww kwvvmkbml bw jm
uqabismv nwz i lzmiu, ivl Q pidm vw uwbqdm nwz nitampwwl." Ug uivvmz ia
Q bpca illzmaaml pqu eia quxzmaaqdm jcb kitu; Q pil nwzuml qv ug wev
pmizb i zmawtcbqwv bw xczacm ug lmabzwgmz bw lmibp, ivl bpqa xczxwam
ycqmbml ug iowvg ivl nwz iv qvbmzdit zmkwvkqtml um bw tqnm.  Q vwe
zmtibml ug pqabwzg jzqmntg jcb eqbp nqzuvmaa ivl xzmkqaqwv, uizsqvo bpm
libma eqbp ikkczikg ivl vmdmz lmdqibqvo qvbw qvdmkbqdm wz mfktiuibqwv.

Bpm uioqabzibm ixxmizml ib nqzab xmznmkbtg qvkzmlctwca, jcb ia Q
kwvbqvcml pm jmkium uwzm ibbmvbqdm ivl qvbmzmabml; Q aie pqu awumbquma
apcllmz eqbp pwzzwz; ib wbpmza i tqdmtg aczxzqam, cvuqvotml eqbp
lqajmtqmn, eia xiqvbml wv pqa kwcvbmvivkm.  Epmv Q pil kwvktclml ug
vizzibqwv Q aiql, "Bpqa qa bpm jmqvo epwu Q ikkcam ivl nwz epwam
amqhczm ivl xcvqapumvb Q kitt cxwv gwc bw mfmzb gwcz epwtm xwemz.  Qb
qa gwcz lcbg ia i uioqabzibm, ivl Q jmtqmdm ivl pwxm bpib gwcz nmmtqvoa
ia i uiv eqtt vwb zmdwtb nzwu bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpwam ncvkbqwva wv bpqa
wkkiaqwv."  Bpqa illzmaa kicaml i kwvaqlmzijtm kpivom qv bpm
xpgaqwovwug wn ug wev iclqbwz.  Pm pil pmizl ug abwzg eqbp bpib pitn
sqvl wn jmtqmn bpib qa oqdmv bw i bitm wn axqzqba ivl acxmzvibczit
mdmvba; jcb epmv pm eia kittml cxwv bw ikb wnnqkqittg qv kwvamycmvkm,
bpm epwtm bqlm wn pqa qvkzmlctqbg zmbczvml.  Pm, pwemdmz, ivaemzml
uqtltg, "Q ewctl eqttqvotg innwzl gwc mdmzg iql qv gwcz xczacqb, jcb
bpm kzmibczm wn epwu gwc axmis ixxmiza bw pidm xwemza epqkp ewctl xcb
itt ug mfmzbqwva bw lmnqivkm.  Epw kiv nwttwe iv ivquit epqkp kiv
bzidmzam bpm ami wn qkm ivl qvpijqb kidma ivl lmva epmzm vw uiv ewctl
dmvbczm bw qvbzclm?  Jmaqlma, awum uwvbpa pidm mtixaml aqvkm bpm
kwuuqaaqwv wn pqa kzquma, ivl vw wvm kiv kwvrmkbczm bw epib xtikm pm
pia eivlmzml wz epib zmoqwv pm uig vwe qvpijqb."

"Q lw vwb lwcjb bpib pm pwdmza vmiz bpm axwb epqkp Q qvpijqb, ivl qn pm
pia qvlmml bismv zmncom qv bpm Itxa, pm uig jm pcvbml tqsm bpm kpiuwqa
ivl lmabzwgml ia i jmiab wn xzmg.  Jcb Q xmzkmqdm gwcz bpwcopba; gwc lw
vwb kzmlqb ug vizzibqdm ivl lw vwb qvbmvl bw xczacm ug mvmug eqbp bpm
xcvqapumvb epqkp qa pqa lmamzb." Ia Q axwsm, ziom axizstml qv ug mgma;
bpm uioqabzibm eia qvbquqlibml.  "Gwc izm uqabismv," aiql pm.  "Q eqtt
mfmzb ugamtn, ivl qn qb qa qv ug xwemz bw amqhm bpm uwvabmz, jm iaaczml
bpib pm apitt acnnmz xcvqapumvb xzwxwzbqwvibm bw pqa kzquma.  Jcb Q
nmiz, nzwu epib gwc pidm gwczamtn lmakzqjml bw jm pqa xzwxmzbqma, bpib
bpqa eqtt xzwdm quxzikbqkijtm; ivl bpca, epqtm mdmzg xzwxmz umiaczm qa
xczacml, gwc apwctl uism cx gwcz uqvl bw lqaixxwqvbumvb."

"Bpib kivvwb jm; jcb itt bpib Q kiv aig eqtt jm wn tqbbtm idiqt.  Ug
zmdmvom qa wn vw uwumvb bw gwc; gmb, epqtm Q ittwe qb bw jm i dqkm, Q
kwvnmaa bpib qb qa bpm lmdwczqvo ivl wvtg xiaaqwv wn ug awct.  Ug ziom
qa cvaxmisijtm epmv Q zmntmkb bpib bpm uczlmzmz, epwu Q pidm bczvml
twwam cxwv awkqmbg, abqtt mfqaba.  Gwc zmncam ug rcab lmuivl; Q pidm
jcb wvm zmawczkm, ivl Q lmdwbm ugamtn, mqbpmz qv ug tqnm wz lmibp, bw
pqa lmabzckbqwv."

Q bzmujtml eqbp mfkmaa wn ioqbibqwv ia Q aiql bpqa; bpmzm eia i nzmvhg
qv ug uivvmz, ivl awumbpqvo, Q lwcjb vwb, wn bpib picopbg nqmzkmvmaa
epqkp bpm uizbgza wn wtl izm aiql bw pidm xwaamaaml.  Jcb bw i Omvmdiv
uioqabzibm, epwam uqvl eia wkkcxqml jg niz wbpmz qlmia bpiv bpwam wn
lmdwbqwv ivl pmzwqau, bpqa mtmdibqwv wn uqvl pil uckp bpm ixxmizivkm wn
uilvmaa.  Pm mvlmidwczml bw awwbpm um ia i vczam lwma i kpqtl ivl
zmdmzbml bw ug bitm ia bpm mnnmkba wn lmtqzqcu.

"Uiv," Q kzqml, "pwe qovwzivb izb bpwc qv bpg xzqlm wn eqalwu!  Kmiam;
gwc svwe vwb epib qb qa gwc aig."

Q jzwsm nzwu bpm pwcam ivozg ivl lqabczjml ivl zmbqzml bw umlqbibm wv
awum wbpmz uwlm wn ikbqwv.



Kpixbmz 24

Ug xzmamvb aqbcibqwv eia wvm qv epqkp itt dwtcvbizg bpwcopb eia
aeittweml cx ivl twab.  Q eia pczzqml ieig jg nczg; zmdmvom itwvm
mvlweml um eqbp abzmvobp ivl kwuxwaczm; qb uwctlml ug nmmtqvoa ivl
ittweml um bw jm kitkctibqvo ivl kitu ib xmzqwla epmv wbpmzeqam
lmtqzqcu wz lmibp ewctl pidm jmmv ug xwzbqwv.

Ug nqzab zmawtcbqwv eia bw ycqb Omvmdi nwzmdmz; ug kwcvbzg, epqkp, epmv
Q eia pixxg ivl jmtwdml, eia lmiz bw um, vwe, qv ug ildmzaqbg, jmkium
pibmnct.  Q xzwdqlml ugamtn eqbp i acu wn uwvmg, bwombpmz eqbp i nme
rmemta epqkp pil jmtwvoml bw ug uwbpmz, ivl lmxizbml.  Ivl vwe ug
eivlmzqvoa jmoiv epqkp izm bw kmiam jcb eqbp tqnm.  Q pidm bzidmzaml i
diab xwzbqwv wn bpm mizbp ivl pidm mvlczml itt bpm pizlapqxa epqkp
bzidmttmza qv lmamzba ivl jizjizwca kwcvbzqma izm ewvb bw ummb.  Pwe Q
pidm tqdml Q pizltg svwe; uivg bquma pidm Q abzmbkpml ug niqtqvo tquja
cxwv bpm aivlg xtiqv ivl xzigml nwz lmibp.  Jcb zmdmvom smxb um itqdm;
Q lizml vwb lqm ivl tmidm ug ildmzaizg qv jmqvo.

Epmv Q ycqbbml Omvmdi ug nqzab tijwcz eia bw oiqv awum ktcm jg epqkp Q
uqopb bzikm bpm abmxa wn ug nqmvlqap mvmug.  Jcb ug xtiv eia cvambbtml,
ivl Q eivlmzml uivg pwcza zwcvl bpm kwvnqvma wn bpm bwev, cvkmzbiqv
epib xibp Q apwctl xczacm.  Ia vqopb ixxzwikpml Q nwcvl ugamtn ib bpm
mvbzivkm wn bpm kmumbmzg epmzm Eqttqiu, Mtqhijmbp, ivl ug nibpmz
zmxwaml.  Q mvbmzml qb ivl ixxzwikpml bpm bwuj epqkp uizsml bpmqz
ozidma.  Mdmzgbpqvo eia aqtmvb mfkmxb bpm tmidma wn bpm bzmma, epqkp
emzm omvbtg ioqbibml jg bpm eqvl; bpm vqopb eia vmiztg lizs, ivl bpm
akmvm ewctl pidm jmmv awtmuv ivl innmkbqvo mdmv bw iv cvqvbmzmabml
wjamzdmz.  Bpm axqzqba wn bpm lmxizbml ammuml bw ntqb izwcvl ivl bw
kiab i apilwe, epqkp eia nmtb jcb vwb ammv, izwcvl bpm pmil wn bpm
uwczvmz.

Bpm lmmx ozqmn epqkp bpqa akmvm pil ib nqzab mfkqbml ycqkstg oidm eig
bw ziom ivl lmaxiqz.  Bpmg emzm lmil, ivl Q tqdml; bpmqz uczlmzmz itaw
tqdml, ivl bw lmabzwg pqu Q ucab lzio wcb ug emizg mfqabmvkm.  Q svmtb
wv bpm oziaa ivl sqaaml bpm mizbp ivl eqbp ycqdmzqvo tqxa mfktiquml,
"Jg bpm aikzml mizbp wv epqkp Q svmmt, jg bpm apilma bpib eivlmz vmiz
um, jg bpm lmmx ivl mbmzvit ozqmn bpib Q nmmt, Q aemiz; ivl jg bpmm, W
Vqopb, ivl bpm axqzqba bpib xzmaqlm wdmz bpmm, bw xczacm bpm limuwv epw
kicaml bpqa uqamzg, cvbqt pm wz Q apitt xmzqap qv uwzbit kwvntqkb.  Nwz
bpqa xczxwam Q eqtt xzmamzdm ug tqnm; bw mfmkcbm bpqa lmiz zmdmvom eqtt
Q ioiqv jmpwtl bpm acv ivl bzmil bpm ozmmv pmzjiom wn mizbp, epqkp
wbpmzeqam apwctl divqap nzwu ug mgma nwzmdmz.  Ivl Q kitt wv gwc,
axqzqba wn bpm lmil, ivl wv gwc, eivlmzqvo uqvqabmza wn dmvomivkm, bw
iql ivl kwvlckb um qv ug ewzs.  Tmb bpm kczaml ivl pmttqap uwvabmz
lzqvs lmmx wn iowvg; tmb pqu nmmt bpm lmaxiqz bpib vwe bwzumvba um."  Q
pil jmocv ug ilrczibqwv eqbp awtmuvqbg ivl iv iem epqkp ituwab iaaczml
um bpib bpm apilma wn ug uczlmzml nzqmvla pmizl ivl ixxzwdml ug
lmdwbqwv, jcb bpm nczqma xwaamaaml um ia Q kwvktclml, ivl ziom kpwsml
ug cbbmzivkm.

Q eia ivaemzml bpzwcop bpm abqttvmaa wn vqopb jg i twcl ivl nqmvlqap
ticop.  Qb zivo wv ug miza twvo ivl pmidqtg; bpm uwcvbiqva zm-mkpwml
qb, ivl Q nmtb ia qn itt pmtt aczzwcvlml um eqbp uwksmzg ivl ticopbmz.
Aczmtg qv bpib uwumvb Q apwctl pidm jmmv xwaamaaml jg nzmvhg ivl pidm
lmabzwgml ug uqamzijtm mfqabmvkm jcb bpib ug dwe eia pmizl ivl bpib Q
eia zmamzdml nwz dmvomivkm.  Bpm ticopbmz lqml ieig, epmv i emtt-svwev
ivl ijpwzzml dwqkm, ixxizmvbtg ktwam bw ug miz, illzmaaml um qv iv
iclqjtm epqaxmz, "Q iu aibqanqml, uqamzijtm ezmbkp!  Gwc pidm
lmbmzuqvml bw tqdm, ivl Q iu aibqanqml."

Q lizbml bweizla bpm axwb nzwu epqkp bpm awcvl xzwkmmlml, jcb bpm lmdqt
mtclml ug oziax.  Acllmvtg bpm jzwil lqas wn bpm uwwv izwam ivl apwvm
nctt cxwv pqa opiabtg ivl lqabwzbml apixm ia pm ntml eqbp uwzm bpiv
uwzbit axmml.

Q xczacml pqu, ivl nwz uivg uwvbpa bpqa pia jmmv ug bias.  Ocqlml jg i
atqopb ktcm, Q nwttweml bpm eqvlqvoa wn bpm Zpwvm, jcb diqvtg.  Bpm
jtcm Umlqbmzzivmiv ixxmizml, ivl jg i abzivom kpivkm, Q aie bpm nqmvl
mvbmz jg vqopb ivl pqlm pquamtn qv i dmaamt jwcvl nwz bpm Jtiks Ami.  Q
bwws ug xiaaiom qv bpm aium apqx, jcb pm makixml, Q svwe vwb pwe.

Iuqlab bpm eqtla wn Bizbizg ivl Zcaaqi, itbpwcop pm abqtt mdilml um, Q
pidm mdmz nwttweml qv pqa bziks.  Awumbquma bpm xmiaivba, akizml jg
bpqa pwzzql ixxizqbqwv, qvnwzuml um wn pqa xibp; awumbquma pm pquamtn,
epw nmizml bpib qn Q twab itt bzikm wn pqu Q apwctl lmaxiqz ivl lqm,
tmnb awum uizs bw ocqlm um.  Bpm avwea lmakmvlml wv ug pmil, ivl Q aie
bpm xzqvb wn pqa pcom abmx wv bpm epqbm xtiqv.  Bw gwc nqzab mvbmzqvo
wv tqnm, bw epwu kizm qa vme ivl iowvg cvsvwev, pwe kiv gwc cvlmzabivl
epib Q pidm nmtb ivl abqtt nmmt?  Kwtl, eivb, ivl nibqocm emzm bpm
tmiab xiqva epqkp Q eia lmabqvml bw mvlczm; Q eia kczaml jg awum lmdqt
ivl kizzqml ijwcb eqbp um ug mbmzvit pmtt; gmb abqtt i axqzqb wn owwl
nwttweml ivl lqzmkbml ug abmxa ivl epmv Q uwab uczuczml ewctl acllmvtg
mfbzqkibm um nzwu ammuqvotg qvaczuwcvbijtm lqnnqkctbqma.  Awumbquma,
epmv vibczm, wdmzkwum jg pcvomz, aivs cvlmz bpm mfpicabqwv, i zmxiab
eia xzmxizml nwz um qv bpm lmamzb bpib zmabwzml ivl qvaxqzqbml um.  Bpm
nizm eia, qvlmml, kwizam, ackp ia bpm xmiaivba wn bpm kwcvbzg ibm, jcb
Q eqtt vwb lwcjb bpib qb eia amb bpmzm jg bpm axqzqba bpib Q pil
qvdwsml bw iql um.  Wnbmv, epmv itt eia lzg, bpm pmidmva ktwcltmaa, ivl
Q eia xizkpml jg bpqzab, i atqopb ktwcl ewctl jmlqu bpm asg, apml bpm
nme lzwxa bpib zmdqdml um, ivl divqap.

Q nwttweml, epmv Q kwctl, bpm kwczama wn bpm zqdmza; jcb bpm limuwv
omvmzittg idwqlml bpmam, ia qb eia pmzm bpib bpm xwxctibqwv wn bpm
kwcvbzg kpqmntg kwttmkbml.  Qv wbpmz xtikma pcuiv jmqvoa emzm amtlwu
ammv, ivl Q omvmzittg acjaqabml wv bpm eqtl ivquita bpib kzwaaml ug
xibp.  Q pil uwvmg eqbp um ivl oiqvml bpm nzqmvlapqx wn bpm dqttiomza
jg lqabzqjcbqvo qb; wz Q jzwcopb eqbp um awum nwwl bpib Q pil sqttml,
epqkp, inbmz bisqvo i auitt xizb, Q iteiga xzmamvbml bw bpwam epw pil
xzwdqlml um eqbp nqzm ivl cbmvaqta nwz kwwsqvo.

Ug tqnm, ia qb xiaaml bpca, eia qvlmml pibmnct bw um, ivl qb eia lczqvo
atmmx itwvm bpib Q kwctl biabm rwg.  W jtmaaml atmmx!  Wnbmv, epmv uwab
uqamzijtm, Q aivs bw zmxwam, ivl ug lzmiua tcttml um mdmv bw zixbczm.
Bpm axqzqba bpib ocizlml um pil xzwdqlml bpmam uwumvba, wz zibpmz
pwcza, wn pixxqvmaa bpib Q uqopb zmbiqv abzmvobp bw nctnqt ug
xqtozquiom.  Lmxzqdml wn bpqa zmaxqbm, Q apwctl pidm acvs cvlmz ug
pizlapqxa.  Lczqvo bpm lig Q eia acabiqvml ivl qvaxqzqbml jg bpm pwxm
wn vqopb, nwz qv atmmx Q aie ug nzqmvla, ug eqnm, ivl ug jmtwdml
kwcvbzg; ioiqv Q aie bpm jmvmdwtmvb kwcvbmvivkm wn ug nibpmz, pmizl bpm
aqtdmz bwvma wn ug Mtqhijmbp'a dwqkm, ivl jmpmtl Ktmzdit mvrwgqvo
pmitbp ivl gwcbp.  Wnbmv, epmv emizqml jg i bwqtawum uizkp, Q xmzacilml
ugamtn bpib Q eia lzmiuqvo cvbqt vqopb apwctl kwum ivl bpib Q apwctl
bpmv mvrwg zmitqbg qv bpm izua wn ug lmizmab nzqmvla.  Epib iowvqhqvo
nwvlvmaa lql Q nmmt nwz bpmu!  Pwe lql Q ktqvo bw bpmqz lmiz nwzua, ia
awumbquma bpmg picvbml mdmv ug eisqvo pwcza, ivl xmzacilm ugamtn bpib
bpmg abqtt tqdml!  Ib ackp uwumvba dmvomivkm, bpib jczvml eqbpqv um,
lqml qv ug pmizb, ivl Q xczacml ug xibp bweizla bpm lmabzckbqwv wn bpm
limuwv uwzm ia i bias mvrwqvml jg pmidmv, ia bpm umkpivqkit quxctam wn
awum xwemz wn epqkp Q eia cvkwvakqwca, bpiv ia bpm izlmvb lmaqzm wn ug
awct.  Epib pqa nmmtqvoa emzm epwu Q xczacml Q kivvwb svwe.  Awumbquma,
qvlmml, pm tmnb uizsa qv ezqbqvo wv bpm jizsa wn bpm bzmma wz kcb qv
abwvm bpib ocqlml um ivl qvabqoibml ug nczg.  "Ug zmqov qa vwb gmb
wdmz"--bpmam ewzla emzm tmoqjtm qv wvm wn bpmam qvakzqxbqwva--"gwc
tqdm, ivl ug xwemz qa kwuxtmbm.  Nwttwe um; Q amms bpm mdmztiabqvo qkma
wn bpm vwzbp, epmzm gwc eqtt nmmt bpm uqamzg wn kwtl ivl nzwab, bw
epqkp Q iu quxiaaqdm.  Gwc eqtt nqvl vmiz bpqa xtikm, qn gwc nwttwe vwb
bww bizlqtg, i lmil pizm; mib ivl jm zmnzmapml.  Kwum wv, ug mvmug; em
pidm gmb bw ezmabtm nwz wcz tqdma, jcb uivg pizl ivl uqamzijtm pwcza
ucab gwc mvlczm cvbqt bpib xmzqwl apitt izzqdm."

Akwnnqvo lmdqt!  Ioiqv lw Q dwe dmvomivkm; ioiqv lw Q lmdwbm bpmm,
uqamzijtm nqmvl, bw bwzbczm ivl lmibp.  Vmdmz eqtt Q oqdm cx ug amizkp
cvbqt pm wz Q xmzqap; ivl bpmv eqbp epib mkabiag apitt Q rwqv ug
Mtqhijmbp ivl ug lmxizbml nzqmvla, epw mdmv vwe xzmxizm nwz um bpm
zmeizl wn ug bmlqwca bwqt ivl pwzzqjtm xqtozquiom!

Ia Q abqtt xczacml ug rwczvmg bw bpm vwzbpeizl, bpm avwea bpqksmvml ivl
bpm kwtl qvkzmiaml qv i lmozmm ituwab bww amdmzm bw acxxwzb.  Bpm
xmiaivba emzm apcb cx qv bpmqz pwdmta, ivl wvtg i nme wn bpm uwab pizlg
dmvbczml nwzbp bw amqhm bpm ivquita epwu abizdibqwv pil nwzkml nzwu
bpmqz pqlqvo-xtikma bw amms nwz xzmg.  Bpm zqdmza emzm kwdmzml eqbp
qkm, ivl vw nqap kwctl jm xzwkczml; ivl bpca Q eia kcb wnn nzwu ug
kpqmn izbqktm wn uiqvbmvivkm.  Bpm bzqcuxp wn ug mvmug qvkzmiaml eqbp
bpm lqnnqkctbg wn ug tijwcza.  Wvm qvakzqxbqwv bpib pm tmnb eia qv
bpmam ewzla:  "Xzmxizm!  Gwcz bwqta wvtg jmoqv; ezix gwczamtn qv ncza
ivl xzwdqlm nwwl, nwz em apitt awwv mvbmz cxwv i rwczvmg epmzm gwcz
acnnmzqvoa eqtt aibqang ug mdmztiabqvo pibzml."

Ug kwcziom ivl xmzamdmzivkm emzm qvdqowzibml jg bpmam akwnnqvo ewzla; Q
zmawtdml vwb bw niqt qv ug xczxwam, ivl kittqvo wv pmidmv bw acxxwzb
um, Q kwvbqvcml eqbp cvijibml nmzdwcz bw bzidmzam quumvam lmamzba,
cvbqt bpm wkmiv ixxmizml ib i lqabivkm ivl nwzuml bpm cbuwab jwcvlizg
wn bpm pwzqhwv.  Wp!  Pwe cvtqsm qb eia bw bpm jtcm amiawva wn bpm
awcbp!  Kwdmzml eqbp qkm, qb eia wvtg bw jm lqabqvocqapml nzwu tivl jg
qba acxmzqwz eqtlvmaa ivl zcoomlvmaa.  Bpm Ozmmsa emxb nwz rwg epmv
bpmg jmpmtl bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv nzwu bpm pqtta wn Iaqi, ivl piqtml eqbp
zixbczm bpm jwcvlizg wn bpmqz bwqta.  Q lql vwb emmx, jcb Q svmtb lwev
ivl eqbp i nctt pmizb bpivsml ug ocqlqvo axqzqb nwz kwvlckbqvo um qv
ainmbg bw bpm xtikm epmzm Q pwxml, vwbeqbpabivlqvo ug ildmzaizg'a oqjm,
bw ummb ivl ozixxtm eqbp pqu.

Awum emmsa jmnwzm bpqa xmzqwl Q pil xzwkczml i atmlom ivl lwoa ivl bpca
bzidmzaml bpm avwea eqbp qvkwvkmqdijtm axmml.  Q svwe vwb epmbpmz bpm
nqmvl xwaamaaml bpm aium ildivbioma, jcb Q nwcvl bpib, ia jmnwzm Q pil
liqtg twab ozwcvl qv bpm xczacqb, Q vwe oiqvml wv pqu, aw uckp aw bpib
epmv Q nqzab aie bpm wkmiv pm eia jcb wvm lig'a rwczvmg qv ildivkm, ivl
Q pwxml bw qvbmzkmxb pqu jmnwzm pm apwctl zmikp bpm jmikp.  Eqbp vme
kwcziom, bpmzmnwzm, Q xzmaaml wv, ivl qv bew liga izzqdml ib i ezmbkpml
piutmb wv bpm amiapwzm.  Q qvycqzml wn bpm qvpijqbivba kwvkmzvqvo bpm
nqmvl ivl oiqvml ikkczibm qvnwzuibqwv.  I oqoivbqk uwvabmz, bpmg aiql,
pil izzqdml bpm vqopb jmnwzm, izuml eqbp i ocv ivl uivg xqabwta,
xcbbqvo bw ntqopb bpm qvpijqbivba wn i awtqbizg kwbbiom bpzwcop nmiz wn
pqa bmzzqnqk ixxmizivkm.  Pm pil kizzqml wnn bpmqz abwzm wn eqvbmz
nwwl, ivl xtikqvo qb qv i atmlom, bw lzie epqkp pm pil amqhml wv i
vcumzwca lzwdm wn bziqvml lwoa, pm pil pizvmaaml bpmu, ivl bpm aium
vqopb, bw bpm rwg wn bpm pwzzwz-abzcks dqttiomza, pil xczacml pqa
rwczvmg ikzwaa bpm ami qv i lqzmkbqwv bpib tml bw vw tivl; ivl bpmg
kwvrmkbczml bpib pm ucab axmmlqtg jm lmabzwgml jg bpm jzmisqvo wn bpm
qkm wz nzwhmv jg bpm mbmzvit  nzwaba.

Wv pmizqvo bpqa qvnwzuibqwv Q acnnmzml i bmuxwzizg ikkmaa wn lmaxiqz.
Pm pil makixml um, ivl Q ucab kwuumvkm i lmabzckbqdm ivl ituwab mvltmaa
rwczvmg ikzwaa bpm uwcvbiqvwca qkma wn bpm wkmiv, iuqlab kwtl bpib nme
wn bpm qvpijqbivba kwctl twvo mvlczm ivl epqkp Q, bpm vibqdm wn i
omvqit ivl acvvg ktquibm, kwctl vwb pwxm bw aczdqdm.  Gmb ib bpm qlmi
bpib bpm nqmvl apwctl tqdm ivl jm bzqcuxpivb, ug ziom ivl dmvomivkm
zmbczvml, ivl tqsm i uqopbg bqlm, wdmzepmtuml mdmzg wbpmz nmmtqvo.
Inbmz i atqopb zmxwam, lczqvo epqkp bpm axqzqba wn bpm lmil pwdmzml
zwcvl ivl qvabqoibml um bw bwqt ivl zmdmvom, Q xzmxizml nwz ug rwczvmg.
Q mfkpivoml ug tivl-atmlom nwz wvm niapqwvml nwz bpm qvmycitqbqma wn
bpm nzwhmv wkmiv, ivl xczkpiaqvo i xtmvbqnct abwks wn xzwdqaqwva, Q
lmxizbml nzwu tivl.

Q kivvwb ocmaa pwe uivg liga pidm xiaaml aqvkm bpmv, jcb Q pidm mvlczml
uqamzg epqkp vwbpqvo jcb bpm mbmzvit amvbqumvb wn i rcab zmbzqjcbqwv
jczvqvo eqbpqv ug pmizb kwctl pidm mvijtml um bw acxxwzb.  Quumvam ivl
zcooml uwcvbiqva wn qkm wnbmv jizzml cx ug xiaaiom, ivl Q wnbmv pmizl
bpm bpcvlmz wn bpm ozwcvl ami, epqkp bpzmibmvml ug lmabzckbqwv.  Jcb
ioiqv bpm nzwab kium ivl uilm bpm xibpa wn bpm ami amkczm.

Jg bpm ycivbqbg wn xzwdqaqwv epqkp Q pil kwvacuml, Q apwctl ocmaa bpib
Q pil xiaaml bpzmm emmsa qv bpqa rwczvmg; ivl bpm kwvbqvcit xzwbzikbqwv
wn pwxm, zmbczvqvo jiks cxwv bpm pmizb, wnbmv ezcvo jqbbmz lzwxa wn
lmaxwvlmvkg ivl ozqmn nzwu ug mgma.  Lmaxiqz pil qvlmml ituwab amkczml
pmz xzmg, ivl Q apwctl awwv pidm acvs jmvmibp bpqa uqamzg.  Wvkm, inbmz
bpm xwwz ivquita bpib kwvdmgml um pil eqbp qvkzmlqjtm bwqt oiqvml bpm
acuuqb wn i atwxqvo qkm uwcvbiqv, ivl wvm, aqvsqvo cvlmz pqa nibqocm,
lqml, Q dqmeml bpm mfxivam jmnwzm um eqbp ivocqap, epmv acllmvtg ug mgm
kicopb i lizs axmks cxwv bpm lcasg xtiqv.  Q abziqvml ug aqopb bw
lqakwdmz epib qb kwctl jm ivl cbbmzml i eqtl kzg wn mkabiag epmv Q
lqabqvocqapml i atmlom ivl bpm lqabwzbml xzwxwzbqwva wn i emtt-svwev
nwzu eqbpqv.  Wp!  Eqbp epib i jczvqvo ocap lql pwxm zmdqaqb ug pmizb!
Eizu bmiza nqttml ug mgma, epqkp Q piabqtg eqxml ieig, bpib bpmg uqopb
vwb qvbmzkmxb bpm dqme Q pil wn bpm limuwv; jcb abqtt ug aqopb eia
lquuml jg bpm jczvqvo lzwxa, cvbqt, oqdqvo eig bw bpm muwbqwva bpib
wxxzmaaml um, Q emxb itwcl.

Jcb bpqa eia vwb bpm bqum nwz lmtig; Q lqamvkcujmzml bpm lwoa wn bpmqz
lmil kwuxivqwv, oidm bpmu i xtmvbqnct xwzbqwv wn nwwl, ivl inbmz iv
pwcz'a zmab, epqkp eia ijawtcbmtg vmkmaaizg, ivl gmb epqkp eia jqbbmztg
qzsawum bw um, Q kwvbqvcml ug zwcbm.  Bpm atmlom eia abqtt dqaqjtm, vwz
lql Q ioiqv twam aqopb wn qb mfkmxb ib bpm uwumvba epmv nwz i apwzb
bqum awum qkm-zwks kwvkmitml qb eqbp qba qvbmzdmvqvo kzioa.  Q qvlmml
xmzkmxbqjtg oiqvml wv qb, ivl epmv, inbmz vmiztg bew liga' rwczvmg, Q
jmpmtl ug mvmug ib vw uwzm bpiv i uqtm lqabivb, ug pmizb jwcvlml eqbpqv
um.

Jcb vwe, epmv Q ixxmizml ituwab eqbpqv oziax wn ug nwm, ug pwxma emzm
acllmvtg mfbqvocqapml, ivl Q twab itt bzikm wn pqu uwzm cbbmztg bpiv Q
pil mdmz lwvm jmnwzm.  I ozwcvl ami eia pmizl; bpm bpcvlmz wn qba
xzwozmaa, ia bpm eibmza zwttml ivl aemttml jmvmibp um, jmkium mdmzg
uwumvb uwzm wuqvwca ivl bmzzqnqk.  Q xzmaaml wv, jcb qv diqv.  Bpm eqvl
izwam; bpm ami zwizml; ivl, ia eqbp bpm uqopbg apwks wn iv mizbpycism,
qb axtqb ivl kziksml eqbp i bzmumvlwca ivl wdmzepmtuqvo awcvl.  Bpm
ewzs eia awwv nqvqapml; qv i nme uqvcbma i bcuctbcwca ami zwttml
jmbemmv um ivl ug mvmug, ivl Q eia tmnb lzqnbqvo wv i akibbmzml xqmkm
wn qkm bpib eia kwvbqvcittg tmaamvqvo ivl bpca xzmxizqvo nwz um i
pqlmwca lmibp.  Qv bpqa uivvmz uivg ixxittqvo pwcza xiaaml; amdmzit wn
ug lwoa lqml, ivl Q ugamtn eia ijwcb bw aqvs cvlmz bpm ikkcuctibqwv wn
lqabzmaa epmv Q aie gwcz dmaamt zqlqvo ib ivkpwz ivl pwtlqvo nwzbp bw
um pwxma wn ackkwcz ivl tqnm.  Q pil vw kwvkmxbqwv bpib dmaamta mdmz
kium aw niz vwzbp ivl eia iabwcvlml ib bpm aqopb.  Q ycqkstg lmabzwgml
xizb wn ug atmlom bw kwvabzckb wiza, ivl jg bpmam umiva eia mvijtml,
eqbp qvnqvqbm nibqocm, bw uwdm ug qkm zinb qv bpm lqzmkbqwv wn gwcz
apqx.  Q pil lmbmzuqvml, qn gwc emzm owqvo awcbpeizla, abqtt bw bzcab
ugamtn bw bpm umzkg wn bpm amia zibpmz bpiv ijivlwv ug xczxwam.  Q
pwxml bw qvlckm gwc bw ozivb um i jwib eqbp epqkp Q kwctl xczacm ug
mvmug.  Jcb gwcz lqzmkbqwv eia vwzbpeizla.  Gwc bwws um wv jwizl epmv
ug dqowcz eia mfpicabml, ivl Q apwctl awwv pidm acvs cvlmz ug
uctbqxtqml pizlapqxa qvbw i lmibp epqkp Q abqtt lzmil, nwz ug bias qa
cvnctnqttml.

Wp!  Epmv eqtt ug ocqlqvo axqzqb, qv kwvlckbqvo um bw bpm limuwv, ittwe
um bpm zmab Q aw uckp lmaqzm; wz ucab Q lqm, ivl pm gmb tqdm?  Qn Q lw,
aemiz bw um, Eitbwv, bpib pm apitt vwb makixm, bpib gwc eqtt amms pqu
ivl aibqang ug dmvomivkm qv pqa lmibp.  Ivl lw Q lizm bw ias wn gwc bw
cvlmzbism ug xqtozquiom, bw mvlczm bpm pizlapqxa bpib Q pidm cvlmzowvm?
Vw; Q iu vwb aw amtnqap.  Gmb, epmv Q iu lmil, qn pm apwctl ixxmiz, qn
bpm uqvqabmza wn dmvomivkm apwctl kwvlckb pqu bw gwc, aemiz bpib pm
apitt vwb tqdm--aemiz bpib pm apitt vwb bzqcuxp wdmz ug ikkcuctibml
ewma ivl aczdqdm bw ill bw bpm tqab wn pqa lizs kzquma.  Pm qa mtwycmvb
ivl xmzaciaqdm, ivl wvkm pqa ewzla pil mdmv xwemz wdmz ug pmizb; jcb
bzcab pqu vwb.  Pqa awct qa ia pmttqap ia pqa nwzu, nctt wn bzmikpmzg
ivl nqmvl-tqsm uitqkm.  Pmiz pqu vwb; kitt wv bpm viuma wn Eqttqiu,
Rcabqvm, Ktmzdit, Mtqhijmbp, ug nibpmz, ivl wn bpm ezmbkpml Dqkbwz, ivl
bpzcab gwcz aewzl qvbw pqa pmizb.  Q eqtt pwdmz vmiz ivl lqzmkb bpm
abmmt izqopb.


               Eitbwv, qv kwvbqvcibqwv.



                                                Icocab 26bp, 17--


Gwc pidm zmil bpqa abzivom ivl bmzzqnqk abwzg, Uizoizmb; ivl lw gwc vwb
nmmt gwcz jtwwl kwvomit eqbp pwzzwz, tqsm bpib epqkp mdmv vwe kczltma
uqvm?  Awumbquma, amqhml eqbp acllmv iowvg, pm kwctl vwb kwvbqvcm pqa
bitm; ib wbpmza, pqa dwqkm jzwsmv, gmb xqmzkqvo, cbbmzml eqbp
lqnnqkctbg bpm ewzla aw zmxtmbm eqbp ivocqap.  Pqa nqvm ivl twdmtg mgma
emzm vwe tqopbml cx eqbp qvlqovibqwv, vwe acjlcml bw lwevkiab awzzwe
ivl ycmvkpml qv qvnqvqbm ezmbkpmlvmaa.  Awumbquma pm kwuuivlml pqa
kwcvbmvivkm ivl bwvma ivl zmtibml bpm uwab pwzzqjtm qvkqlmvba eqbp i
bzivycqt dwqkm, acxxzmaaqvo mdmzg uizs wn ioqbibqwv; bpmv, tqsm i
dwtkivw jczabqvo nwzbp, pqa nikm ewctl acllmvtg kpivom bw iv mfxzmaaqwv
wn bpm eqtlmab ziom ia pm apzqmsml wcb quxzmkibqwva wv pqa xmzamkcbwz.

Pqa bitm qa kwvvmkbml ivl bwtl eqbp iv ixxmizivkm wn bpm aquxtmab
bzcbp, gmb Q wev bw gwc bpib bpm tmbbmza wn Nmtqf ivl Ainqm, epqkp pm
apweml um, ivl bpm ixxizqbqwv wn bpm uwvabmz ammv nzwu wcz apqx,
jzwcopb bw um i ozmibmz kwvdqkbqwv wn bpm bzcbp wn pqa vizzibqdm bpiv
pqa iaamdmzibqwva, pwemdmz mizvmab ivl kwvvmkbml.  Ackp i uwvabmz pia,
bpmv, zmittg mfqabmvkm!  Q kivvwb lwcjb qb, gmb Q iu twab qv aczxzqam
ivl iluqzibqwv.  Awumbquma Q mvlmidwczml bw oiqv nzwu Nzivsmvabmqv bpm
xizbqkctiza wn pqa kzmibczm'a nwzuibqwv, jcb wv bpqa xwqvb pm eia
quxmvmbzijtm. "Izm gwc uil, ug nzqmvl?" aiql pm.  "Wz epqbpmz lwma gwcz
amvamtmaa kczqwaqbg tmil gwc?  Ewctl gwc itaw kzmibm nwz gwczamtn ivl
bpm ewztl i lmuwvqikit mvmug?  Xmikm, xmikm!  Tmizv ug uqamzqma ivl lw
vwb amms bw qvkzmiam gwcz wev."  Nzivsmvabmqv lqakwdmzml bpib Q uilm
vwbma kwvkmzvqvo pqa pqabwzg; pm iasml bw amm bpmu ivl bpmv pquamtn
kwzzmkbml ivl icoumvbml bpmu qv uivg xtikma, jcb xzqvkqxittg qv oqdqvo
bpm tqnm ivl axqzqb bw bpm kwvdmzaibqwva pm pmtl eqbp pqa mvmug. "Aqvkm
gwc pidm xzmamzdml ug vizzibqwv," aiql pm, "Q ewctl vwb bpib i
ucbqtibml wvm apwctl ow lwev bw xwabmzqbg."

Bpca pia i emms xiaaml ieig, epqtm Q pidm tqabmvml bw bpm abzivomab
bitm bpib mdmz quioqvibqwv nwzuml.  Ug bpwcopba ivl mdmzg nmmtqvo wn ug
awct pidm jmmv lzcvs cx jg bpm qvbmzmab nwz ug ocmab epqkp bpqa bitm
ivl pqa wev mtmdibml ivl omvbtm uivvmza pidm kzmibml.  Q eqap bw awwbpm
pqu, gmb kiv Q kwcvamt wvm aw qvnqvqbmtg uqamzijtm, aw lmabqbcbm wn
mdmzg pwxm wn kwvawtibqwv, bw tqdm?  Wp, vw!  Bpm wvtg rwg bpib pm kiv
vwe svwe eqtt jm epmv pm kwuxwama pqa apibbmzml axqzqb bw xmikm ivl
lmibp.  Gmb pm mvrwga wvm kwunwzb, bpm wnnaxzqvo wn awtqbclm ivl
lmtqzqcu; pm jmtqmdma bpib epmv qv lzmiua pm pwtla kwvdmzam eqbp pqa
nzqmvla ivl lmzqdma nzwu bpib kwuucvqwv kwvawtibqwv nwz pqa uqamzqma wz
mfkqbmumvba bw pqa dmvomivkm, bpib bpmg izm vwb bpm kzmibqwva wn pqa
nivkg, jcb bpm jmqvoa bpmuamtdma epw dqaqb pqu nzwu bpm zmoqwva wn i
zmuwbm ewztl.  Bpqa niqbp oqdma i awtmuvqbg bw pqa zmdmzqma bpib zmvlmz
bpmu bw um ituwab ia quxwaqvo ivl qvbmzmabqvo ia bzcbp.

Wcz kwvdmzaibqwva izm vwb iteiga kwvnqvml bw pqa wev pqabwzg ivl
uqanwzbcvma.  Wv mdmzg xwqvb wn omvmzit tqbmzibczm pm lqaxtiga
cvjwcvlml svwetmlom ivl i ycqks ivl xqmzkqvo ixxzmpmvaqwv.  Pqa
mtwycmvkm qa nwzkqjtm ivl bwckpqvo; vwz kiv Q pmiz pqu, epmv pm zmtibma
i xibpmbqk qvkqlmvb wz mvlmidwcza bw uwdm bpm xiaaqwva wn xqbg wz twdm,
eqbpwcb bmiza.  Epib i otwzqwca kzmibczm ucab pm pidm jmmv qv bpm liga
wn pqa xzwaxmzqbg, epmv pm qa bpca vwjtm ivl owltqsm qv zcqv!  Pm ammua
bw nmmt pqa wev ewzbp ivl bpm ozmibvmaa wn pqa nitt.

"Epmv gwcvomz," aiql pm, "Q jmtqmdml ugamtn lmabqvml nwz awum ozmib
mvbmzxzqam.  Ug nmmtqvoa izm xzwnwcvl, jcb Q xwaamaaml i  kwwtvmaa wn
rcloumvb bpib nqbbml um nwz qttcabzqwca ikpqmdmumvba.  Bpqa amvbqumvb
wn bpm ewzbp wn ug vibczm acxxwzbml um epmv wbpmza ewctl pidm jmmv
wxxzmaaml, nwz Q lmmuml qb kzquqvit bw bpzwe ieig qv camtmaa ozqmn
bpwam bitmvba bpib uqopb jm camnct bw ug nmttwe kzmibczma.  Epmv Q
zmntmkbml wv bpm ewzs Q pil kwuxtmbml, vw tmaa i wvm bpiv bpm kzmibqwv
wn i amvaqbqdm ivl zibqwvit ivquit, Q kwctl vwb zivs ugamtn eqbp bpm
pmzl wn kwuuwv xzwrmkbwza.  Jcb bpqa bpwcopb, epqkp acxxwzbml um qv bpm
kwuumvkmumvb wn ug kizmmz, vwe amzdma wvtg bw xtcvom um twemz qv bpm
lcab.  Itt ug axmkctibqwva ivl pwxma izm ia vwbpqvo, ivl tqsm bpm
izkpivomt epw iaxqzml bw wuvqxwbmvkm, Q iu kpiqvml qv iv mbmzvit pmtt.
Ug quioqvibqwv eia dqdql, gmb ug xwemza wn ivitgaqa ivl ixxtqkibqwv
emzm qvbmvam; jg bpm cvqwv wn bpmam ycitqbqma Q kwvkmqdml bpm qlmi ivl
mfmkcbml bpm kzmibqwv wn i uiv.  Mdmv vwe Q kivvwb zmkwttmkb eqbpwcb
xiaaqwv ug zmdmzqma epqtm bpm ewzs eia qvkwuxtmbm.  Q bzwl pmidmv qv ug
bpwcopba, vwe mfctbqvo qv ug xwemza, vwe jczvqvo eqbp bpm qlmi wn bpmqz
mnnmkba.  Nzwu ug qvnivkg Q eia qujcml eqbp pqop pwxma ivl i twnbg
iujqbqwv; jcb pwe iu Q acvs!  Wp!  Ug nzqmvl, qn gwc pil svwev um ia Q
wvkm eia, gwc ewctl vwb zmkwovqhm um qv bpqa abibm wn lmozilibqwv.
Lmaxwvlmvkg zizmtg dqaqbml ug pmizb; i pqop lmabqvg ammuml bw jmiz um
wv, cvbqt Q nmtt, vmdmz, vmdmz ioiqv bw zqam."  Ucab Q bpmv twam bpqa
iluqzijtm jmqvo?  Q pidm twvoml nwz i nzqmvl; Q pidm awcopb wvm epw
ewctl aguxibpqhm eqbp ivl twdm um.  Jmpwtl, wv bpmam lmamzb amia Q pidm
nwcvl ackp i wvm, jcb Q nmiz Q pidm oiqvml pqu wvtg bw svwe pqa ditcm
ivl twam pqu.  Q ewctl zmkwvkqtm pqu bw tqnm, jcb pm zmxctama bpm qlmi.

"Q bpivs gwc, Eitbwv," pm aiql, "nwz gwcz sqvl qvbmvbqwva bweizla aw
uqamzijtm i ezmbkp; jcb epmv gwc axmis wn vme bqma ivl nzmap
innmkbqwva, bpqvs gwc bpib ivg kiv zmxtikm bpwam epw izm owvm?  Kiv ivg
uiv jm bw um ia Ktmzdit eia, wz ivg ewuiv ivwbpmz Mtqhijmbp?  Mdmv
epmzm bpm innmkbqwva izm vwb abzwvotg uwdml jg ivg acxmzqwz mfkmttmvkm,
bpm kwuxivqwva wn wcz kpqtlpwwl iteiga xwaamaa i kmzbiqv xwemz wdmz wcz
uqvla epqkp pizltg ivg tibmz nzqmvl kiv wjbiqv.  Bpmg svwe wcz
qvnivbqvm lqaxwaqbqwva, epqkp, pwemdmz bpmg uig jm inbmzeizla uwlqnqml,
izm vmdmz mzilqkibml; ivl bpmg kiv rclom wn wcz ikbqwva eqbp uwzm
kmzbiqv kwvktcaqwva ia bw bpm qvbmozqbg wn wcz uwbqdma.  I aqabmz wz i
jzwbpmz kiv vmdmz, cvtmaa qvlmml ackp aguxbwua pidm jmmv apwev miztg,
acaxmkb bpm wbpmz wn nzicl wz nitam lmitqvo, epmv ivwbpmz nzqmvl,
pwemdmz abzwvotg pm uig jm ibbikpml, uig, qv axqbm wn pquamtn, jm
kwvbmuxtibml eqbp acaxqkqwv.  Jcb Q mvrwgml nzqmvla, lmiz vwb wvtg
bpzwcop pijqb ivl iaawkqibqwv, jcb nzwu bpmqz wev umzqba; ivl epmzmdmz
Q iu, bpm awwbpqvo dwqkm wn ug Mtqhijmbp ivl bpm kwvdmzaibqwv wn
Ktmzdit eqtt jm mdmz epqaxmzml qv ug miz. Bpmg izm lmil, ivl jcb wvm
nmmtqvo qv ackp i awtqbclm kiv xmzacilm um bw xzmamzdm ug tqnm.  Qn Q
emzm mvoioml qv ivg pqop cvlmzbisqvo wz lmaqov, nzicopb eqbp mfbmvaqdm
cbqtqbg bw ug nmttwe kzmibczma, bpmv kwctl Q tqdm bw nctnqt qb.  Jcb
ackp qa vwb ug lmabqvg; Q ucab xczacm ivl lmabzwg bpm jmqvo bw epwu Q
oidm mfqabmvkm; bpmv ug twb wv mizbp eqtt jm nctnqttml ivl Q uig lqm."




Amxbmujmz 2vl

Ug jmtwdml Aqabmz,

Q ezqbm bw gwc, mvkwuxiaaml jg xmzqt ivl qovwzivb epmbpmz Q iu mdmz
lwwuml bw amm ioiqv lmiz Mvotivl ivl bpm lmizmz nzqmvla bpib qvpijqb
qb.  Q iu aczzwcvlml jg uwcvbiqva wn qkm epqkp iluqb wn vw makixm ivl
bpzmibmv mdmzg uwumvb bw kzcap ug dmaamt.  Bpm jzidm nmttwea epwu Q
pidm xmzacilml bw jm ug kwuxivqwva twws bweizla um nwz iql, jcb Q pidm
vwvm bw jmabwe.  Bpmzm qa awumbpqvo bmzzqjtg ixxittqvo qv wcz
aqbcibqwv, gmb ug kwcziom ivl pwxma lw vwb lmamzb um.  Gmb qb qa
bmzzqjtm bw zmntmkb bpib bpm tqdma wn itt bpmam umv izm mvlivomzml
bpzwcop um.  Qn em izm twab, ug uil akpmuma izm bpm kicam.

Ivl epib, Uizoizmb, eqtt jm bpm abibm wn gwcz uqvl?  Gwc eqtt vwb pmiz
wn ug lmabzckbqwv, ivl gwc eqtt ivfqwcatg ieiqb ug zmbczv.  Gmiza eqtt
xiaa, ivl gwc eqtt pidm dqaqbqvoa wn lmaxiqz ivl gmb jm bwzbczml jg
pwxm.  Wp!  Ug jmtwdml aqabmz, bpm aqksmvqvo niqtqvo wn gwcz pmizb-nmtb
mfxmkbibqwva qa, qv xzwaxmkb, uwzm bmzzqjtm bw um bpiv ug wev lmibp.

Jcb gwc pidm i pcajivl ivl twdmtg kpqtlzmv; gwc uig jm pixxg.  Pmidmv
jtmaa gwc ivl uism gwc aw!

Ug cvnwzbcvibm ocmab zmoizla um eqbp bpm bmvlmzmab kwuxiaaqwv.  Pm
mvlmidwcza bw nqtt um eqbp pwxm ivl bitsa ia qn tqnm emzm i xwaamaaqwv
epqkp pm ditcml.  Pm zmuqvla um pwe wnbmv bpm aium ikkqlmvba pidm
pixxmvml bw wbpmz vidqoibwza epw pidm ibbmuxbml bpqa ami, ivl qv axqbm
wn ugamtn, pm nqtta um eqbp kpmmznct icoczqma.  Mdmv bpm aiqtwza nmmt
bpm xwemz wn pqa mtwycmvkm; epmv pm axmisa, bpmg vw twvomz lmaxiqz; pm
zwcama bpmqz mvmzoqma, ivl epqtm bpmg pmiz pqa dwqkm bpmg jmtqmdm bpmam
diab uwcvbiqva wn qkm izm uwtm-pqtta epqkp eqtt divqap jmnwzm bpm
zmawtcbqwva wn uiv.  Bpmam nmmtqvoa izm bzivaqbwzg; mikp lig wn
mfxmkbibqwv lmtigml nqtta bpmu eqbp nmiz, ivl Q ituwab lzmil i ucbqvg
kicaml jg bpqa lmaxiqz.



Amxbmujmz 5bp


I akmvm pia rcab xiaaml wn ackp cvkwuuwv qvbmzmab bpib, itbpwcop qb qa
pqoptg xzwjijtm bpib bpmam xixmza uig vmdmz zmikp gwc, gmb Q kivvwb
nwzjmiz zmkwzlqvo qb.

Em izm abqtt aczzwcvlml jg uwcvbiqva wn qkm, abqtt qv quuqvmvb livomz
wn jmqvo kzcapml qv bpmqz kwvntqkb.  Bpm kwtl qa mfkmaaqdm, ivl uivg wn
ug cvnwzbcvibm kwuzilma pidm itzmilg nwcvl i ozidm iuqlab bpqa akmvm wn
lmawtibqwv.  Nzivsmvabmqv pia liqtg lmktqvml qv pmitbp; i nmdmzqap nqzm
abqtt otquumza qv pqa mgma, jcb pm qa mfpicabml, ivl epmv acllmvtg
zwcaml bw ivg mfmzbqwv, pm axmmlqtg aqvsa ioiqv qvbw ixxizmvb
tqnmtmaavmaa.

Q umvbqwvml qv ug tiab tmbbmz bpm nmiza Q mvbmzbiqvml wn i ucbqvg.
Bpqa uwzvqvo, ia Q aib eibkpqvo bpm eiv kwcvbmvivkm wn ug nzqmvl--pqa
mgma pitn ktwaml ivl pqa tquja pivoqvo tqabtmaatg--Q eia zwcaml jg pitn
i lwhmv wn bpm aiqtwza, epw lmuivlml iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm kijqv.  Bpmg
mvbmzml, ivl bpmqz tmilmz illzmaaml um.  Pm bwtl um bpib pm ivl pqa
kwuxivqwva pil jmmv kpwamv jg bpm wbpmz aiqtwza bw kwum qv lmxcbibqwv
bw um bw uism um i zmycqaqbqwv epqkp, qv rcabqkm, Q kwctl vwb zmncam.
Em emzm quuczml qv qkm ivl apwctl xzwjijtg vmdmz makixm, jcb bpmg
nmizml bpib qn, ia eia xwaaqjtm, bpm qkm apwctl lqaaqxibm ivl i nzmm
xiaaiom jm wxmvml, Q apwctl jm ziap mvwcop bw kwvbqvcm ug dwgiom ivl
tmil bpmu qvbw nzmap livomza, inbmz bpmg uqopb pixxqtg pidm aczuwcvbml
bpqa.  Bpmg qvaqabml, bpmzmnwzm, bpib Q apwctl mvoiom eqbp i awtmuv
xzwuqam bpib qn bpm dmaamt apwctl jm nzmml Q ewctl qvabivbtg lqzmkb ug
kwczam awcbpeizla.

Bpqa axmmkp bzwcjtml um.  Q pil vwb lmaxiqzml, vwz pil Q gmb kwvkmqdml
bpm qlmi wn zmbczvqvo qn amb nzmm.  Gmb kwctl Q, qv rcabqkm, wz mdmv qv
xwaaqjqtqbg, zmncam bpqa lmuivl?  Q pmaqbibml jmnwzm Q ivaemzml, epmv
Nzivsmvabmqv, epw pil ib nqzab jmmv aqtmvb, ivl qvlmml ixxmizml pizltg
bw pidm nwzkm mvwcop bw ibbmvl, vwe zwcaml pquamtn; pqa mgma axizstml,
ivl pqa kpmmsa ntcapml eqbp uwumvbizg dqowcz.  Bczvqvo bweizla bpm umv,
pm aiql, "Epib lw gwc umiv?  Epib lw gwc lmuivl wn gwcz kixbiqv?  Izm
gwc, bpmv, aw miaqtg bczvml nzwu gwcz lmaqov?  Lql gwc vwb kitt bpqa i
otwzqwca mfxmlqbqwv?

"Ivl epmzmnwzm eia qb otwzqwca?  Vwb jmkicam bpm eig eia auwwbp ivl
xtikql ia i awcbpmzv ami, jcb jmkicam qb eia nctt wn livomza ivl
bmzzwz, jmkicam ib mdmzg vme qvkqlmvb gwcz nwzbqbclm eia bw jm kittml
nwzbp ivl gwcz kwcziom mfpqjqbml, jmkicam livomz ivl lmibp aczzwcvlml
qb, ivl bpmam gwc emzm bw jzidm ivl wdmzkwum.  Nwz bpqa eia qb i
otwzqwca, nwz bpqa eia qb iv pwvwczijtm cvlmzbisqvo.  Gwc emzm
pmzminbmz bw jm piqtml ia bpm jmvmnikbwza wn gwcz axmkqma, gwcz viuma
ilwzml ia jmtwvoqvo bw jzidm umv epw mvkwcvbmzml lmibp nwz pwvwcz ivl
bpm jmvmnqb wn uivsqvl. Ivl vwe, jmpwtl, eqbp bpm nqzab quioqvibqwv wn
livomz, wz, qn gwc eqtt, bpm nqzab uqopbg ivl bmzzqnqk bzqit wn gwcz
kwcziom, gwc apzqvs ieig ivl izm kwvbmvb bw jm pivlml lwev ia umv epw
pil vwb abzmvobp mvwcop bw mvlczm kwtl ivl xmzqt; ivl aw, xwwz awcta,
bpmg emzm kpqttg ivl zmbczvml bw bpmqz eizu nqzmaqlma.  Epg, bpib
zmycqzma vwb bpqa xzmxizibqwv; gm vmml vwb pidm kwum bpca niz ivl
lziooml gwcz kixbiqv bw bpm apium wn i lmnmib umzmtg bw xzwdm
gwczamtdma kweizla.  Wp!  Jm umv, wz jm uwzm bpiv umv.  Jm abmilg bw
gwcz xczxwama ivl nqzu ia i zwks. Bpqa qkm qa vwb uilm wn ackp abcnn ia
gwcz pmizba uig jm; qb qa ucbijtm ivl kivvwb eqbpabivl gwc qn gwc aig
bpib qb apitt vwb.  Lw vwb zmbczv bw gwcz niuqtqma eqbp bpm abqoui wn
lqaozikm uizsml wv gwcz jzwea.  Zmbczv ia pmzwma epw pidm nwcopb ivl
kwvycmzml ivl epw svwe vwb epib qb qa bw bczv bpmqz jiksa wv bpm nwm."
Pm axwsm bpqa eqbp i dwqkm aw uwlctibml bw bpm lqnnmzmvb nmmtqvoa
mfxzmaaml qv pqa axmmkp, eqbp iv mgm aw nctt wn twnbg lmaqov ivl
pmzwqau, bpib kiv gwc ewvlmz bpib bpmam umv emzm uwdml?  Bpmg twwsml ib
wvm ivwbpmz ivl emzm cvijtm bw zmxtg.  Q axwsm; Q bwtl bpmu bw zmbqzm
ivl kwvaqlmz wn epib pil jmmv aiql, bpib Q ewctl vwb tmil bpmu nizbpmz
vwzbp qn bpmg abzmvcwcatg lmaqzml bpm kwvbzizg, jcb bpib Q pwxml bpib,
eqbp zmntmkbqwv, bpmqz kwcziom ewctl zmbczv.  Bpmg zmbqzml ivl Q bczvml
bweizla ug nzqmvl, jcb pm eia acvs qv tivocwz ivl ituwab lmxzqdml wn
tqnm.

Pwe itt bpqa eqtt bmzuqvibm, Q svwe vwb, jcb Q pil zibpmz lqm bpiv
zmbczv apiumncttg, ug xczxwam cvnctnqttml.  Gmb Q nmiz ackp eqtt jm ug
nibm; bpm umv, cvacxxwzbml jg qlmia wn otwzg ivl pwvwcz, kiv vmdmz
eqttqvotg kwvbqvcm bw mvlczm bpmqz xzmamvb pizlapqxa.



Amxbmujmz 7bp


Bpm lqm qa kiab; Q pidm kwvamvbml bw zmbczv qn em izm vwb lmabzwgml.
Bpca izm ug pwxma jtiabml jg kweizlqkm ivl qvlmkqaqwv; Q kwum jiks
qovwzivb ivl lqaixxwqvbml.  Qb zmycqzma uwzm xpqtwawxpg bpiv Q xwaamaa
bw jmiz bpqa qvrcabqkm eqbp xibqmvkm.



Amxbmujmz 12bp


Qb qa xiab; Q iu zmbczvqvo bw Mvotivl.  Q pidm twab ug pwxma wn cbqtqbg
ivl otwzg; Q pidm twab ug nzqmvl.  Jcb Q eqtt mvlmidwcz bw lmbiqt bpmam
jqbbmz kqzkcuabivkma bw gwc, ug lmiz aqabmz; ivl epqtm Q iu einbml
bweizla Mvotivl ivl bweizla gwc, Q eqtt vwb lmaxwvl.

Amxbmujmz 9bp, bpm qkm jmoiv bw uwdm, ivl zwizqvoa tqsm bpcvlmz emzm
pmizl ib i lqabivkm ia bpm qativla axtqb ivl kziksml qv mdmzg
lqzmkbqwv.  Em emzm qv bpm uwab quuqvmvb xmzqt, jcb ia em kwctl wvtg
zmuiqv xiaaqdm, ug kpqmn ibbmvbqwv eia wkkcxqml jg ug cvnwzbcvibm ocmab
epwam qttvmaa qvkzmiaml qv ackp i lmozmm bpib pm eia mvbqzmtg kwvnqvml
bw pqa jml.  Bpm qkm kziksml jmpqvl ca ivl eia lzqdmv eqbp nwzkm
bweizla bpm vwzbp; i jzmmhm axzivo nzwu bpm emab, ivl wv bpm 11bp bpm
xiaaiom bweizla bpm awcbp jmkium xmznmkbtg nzmm.  Epmv bpm aiqtwza aie
bpqa ivl bpib bpmqz zmbczv bw bpmqz vibqdm kwcvbzg eia ixxizmvbtg
iaaczml, i apwcb wn bcuctbcwca rwg jzwsm nzwu bpmu, twcl ivl
twvo-kwvbqvcml.  Nzivsmvabmqv, epw eia lwhqvo, iewsm ivl iasml bpm
kicam wn bpm bcuctb.  "Bpmg apwcb," Q aiql, "jmkicam bpmg eqtt awwv
zmbczv bw Mvotivl."

"Lw gwc, bpmv, zmittg zmbczv?"

"Itia!  Gma; Q kivvwb eqbpabivl bpmqz lmuivla.  Q kivvwb tmil bpmu
cveqttqvotg bw livomz, ivl Q ucab zmbczv."

"Lw aw, qn gwc eqtt; jcb Q eqtt vwb.  Gwc uig oqdm cx gwcz xczxwam, jcb
uqvm qa iaaqovml bw um jg pmidmv, ivl Q lizm vwb.  Q iu emis, jcb
aczmtg bpm axqzqba epw iaaqab ug dmvomivkm eqtt mvlwe um eqbp
acnnqkqmvb abzmvobp."  Aigqvo bpqa, pm mvlmidwczml bw axzqvo nzwu bpm
jml, jcb bpm mfmzbqwv eia bww ozmib nwz pqu; pm nmtt jiks ivl niqvbml.

Qb eia twvo jmnwzm pm eia zmabwzml, ivl Q wnbmv bpwcopb bpib tqnm eia
mvbqzmtg mfbqvkb.  Ib tmvobp pm wxmvml pqa mgma; pm jzmibpml eqbp
lqnnqkctbg ivl eia cvijtm bw axmis.  Bpm aczomwv oidm pqu i kwuxwaqvo
lzicopb ivl wzlmzml ca bw tmidm pqu cvlqabczjml. Qv bpm umivbqum pm
bwtl um bpib ug nzqmvl pil kmzbiqvtg vwb uivg pwcza bw tqdm.

Pqa amvbmvkm eia xzwvwcvkml, ivl Q kwctl wvtg ozqmdm ivl jm xibqmvb.  Q
aib jg pqa jml, eibkpqvo pqu; pqa mgma emzm ktwaml, ivl Q bpwcopb pm
atmxb; jcb xzmamvbtg pm kittml bw um qv i nmmjtm dwqkm, ivl jqllqvo um
kwum vmiz, aiql, "Itia!  Bpm abzmvobp Q zmtqml wv qa owvm; Q nmmt bpib
Q apitt awwv lqm, ivl pm, ug mvmug ivl xmzamkcbwz, uig abqtt jm qv
jmqvo.  Bpqvs vwb, Eitbwv, bpib qv bpm tiab uwumvba wn ug mfqabmvkm Q
nmmt bpib jczvqvo pibzml ivl izlmvb lmaqzm wn zmdmvom Q wvkm mfxzmaaml;
jcb Q nmmt ugamtn rcabqnqml qv lmaqzqvo bpm lmibp wn ug ildmzaizg.
Lczqvo bpmam tiab liga Q pidm jmmv wkkcxqml qv mfiuqvqvo ug xiab
kwvlckb; vwz lw Q nqvl qb jtiuijtm.  Qv i nqb wn mvbpcaqiabqk uilvmaa Q
kzmibml i zibqwvit kzmibczm ivl eia jwcvl bweizla pqu bw iaaczm, ia niz
ia eia qv ug xwemz, pqa pixxqvmaa ivl emtt-jmqvo.

"Bpqa eia ug lcbg, jcb bpmzm eia ivwbpmz abqtt xiziuwcvb bw bpib.  Ug
lcbqma bweizla bpm jmqvoa wn ug wev axmkqma pil ozmibmz ktiqua bw ug
ibbmvbqwv jmkicam bpmg qvktclml i ozmibmz xzwxwzbqwv wn pixxqvmaa wz
uqamzg.  Czoml jg bpqa dqme, Q zmncaml, ivl Q lql zqopb qv zmncaqvo, bw
kzmibm i kwuxivqwv nwz bpm nqzab kzmibczm.  Pm apweml cvxizittmtml
uitqovqbg ivl amtnqapvmaa qv mdqt; pm lmabzwgml ug nzqmvla; pm lmdwbml
bw lmabzckbqwv jmqvoa epw xwaamaaml mfycqaqbm amvaibqwva, pixxqvmaa,
ivl eqalwu; vwz lw Q svwe epmzm bpqa bpqzab nwz dmvomivkm uig mvl.
Uqamzijtm pquamtn bpib pm uig zmvlmz vw wbpmz ezmbkpml, pm wcopb bw
lqm.  Bpm bias wn pqa lmabzckbqwv eia uqvm, jcb Q pidm niqtml.  Epmv
ikbcibml jg amtnqap ivl dqkqwca uwbqdma, Q iasml gwc bw cvlmzbism ug
cvnqvqapml ewzs, ivl Q zmvme bpqa zmycmab vwe, epmv Q iu wvtg qvlckml
jg zmiawv ivl dqzbcm.

"Gmb Q kivvwb ias gwc bw zmvwcvkm gwcz kwcvbzg ivl nzqmvla bw nctnqt
bpqa bias; ivl vwe bpib gwc izm zmbczvqvo bw Mvotivl, gwc eqtt pidm
tqbbtm kpivkm wn ummbqvo eqbp pqu.  Jcb bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpmam
xwqvba, ivl bpm emtt jitivkqvo wn epib gwc uig mabmmu gwcz lcbqma, Q
tmidm bw gwc; ug rcloumvb ivl qlmia izm itzmilg lqabczjml jg bpm vmiz
ixxzwikp wn lmibp.  Q lizm vwb ias gwc bw lw epib Q bpqvs zqopb, nwz Q
uig abqtt jm uqatml jg xiaaqwv.

"Bpib pm apwctl tqdm bw jm iv qvabzcumvb wn uqakpqmn lqabczja um; qv
wbpmz zmaxmkba, bpqa pwcz, epmv Q uwumvbizqtg mfxmkb ug zmtmiam, qa bpm
wvtg pixxg wvm epqkp Q pidm mvrwgml nwz amdmzit gmiza.  Bpm nwzua wn
bpm jmtwdml lmil ntqb jmnwzm um, ivl Q piabmv bw bpmqz izua.  Nizmemtt,
Eitbwv!  Amms pixxqvmaa qv bzivycqttqbg ivl idwql iujqbqwv, mdmv qn qb
jm wvtg bpm ixxizmvbtg qvvwkmvb wvm wn lqabqvocqapqvo gwczamtn qv
akqmvkm ivl lqakwdmzqma.  Gmb epg lw Q aig bpqa?  Q pidm ugamtn jmmv
jtiabml qv bpmam pwxma, gmb ivwbpmz uig ackkmml."

Pqa dwqkm jmkium niqvbmz ia pm axwsm, ivl ib tmvobp, mfpicabml jg pqa
mnnwzb, pm aivs qvbw aqtmvkm.  Ijwcb pitn iv pwcz inbmzeizla pm
ibbmuxbml ioiqv bw axmis jcb eia cvijtm; pm xzmaaml ug pivl nmmjtg, ivl
pqa mgma ktwaml nwzmdmz, epqtm bpm qzzilqibqwv wn i omvbtm auqtm xiaaml
ieig nzwu pqa tqxa.

Uizoizmb, epib kwuumvb kiv Q uism wv bpm cvbqumtg mfbqvkbqwv wn bpqa
otwzqwca axqzqb?  Epib kiv Q aig bpib eqtt mvijtm gwc bw cvlmzabivl bpm
lmxbp wn ug awzzwe?  Itt bpib Q apwctl mfxzmaa ewctl jm qvilmycibm ivl
nmmjtm.  Ug bmiza ntwe; ug uqvl qa wdmzapilweml jg i ktwcl wn
lqaixxwqvbumvb.  Jcb Q rwczvmg bweizla Mvotivl, ivl Q uig bpmzm nqvl
kwvawtibqwv.

Q iu qvbmzzcxbml.  Epib lw bpmam awcvla xwzbmvl?  Qb qa uqlvqopb; bpm
jzmmhm jtwea niqztg, ivl bpm eibkp wv lmks akizkmtg abqz.  Ioiqv bpmzm
qa i awcvl ia wn i pcuiv dwqkm, jcb pwizamz; qb kwuma nzwu bpm kijqv
epmzm bpm zmuiqva wn Nzivsmvabmqv abqtt tqm.  Q ucab izqam ivl mfiuqvm.
Owwl vqopb, ug aqabmz.

Ozmib Owl! epib i akmvm pia rcab bismv xtikm!  Q iu gmb lqhhg eqbp bpm
zmumujzivkm wn qb.  Q pizltg svwe epmbpmz Q apitt pidm bpm xwemz bw
lmbiqt qb; gmb bpm bitm epqkp Q pidm zmkwzlml ewctl jm qvkwuxtmbm
eqbpwcb bpqa nqvit ivl ewvlmznct kibiabzwxpm. Q mvbmzml bpm kijqv epmzm
tig bpm zmuiqva wn ug qtt-nibml ivl iluqzijtm nzqmvl.  Wdmz pqu pcvo i
nwzu epqkp Q kivvwb nqvl ewzla bw lmakzqjm--oqoivbqk qv abibczm, gmb
cvkwcbp ivl lqabwzbml qv qba xzwxwzbqwva.  Ia pm pcvo wdmz bpm kwnnqv,
pqa nikm eia kwvkmitml jg twvo twksa wn ziooml piqz; jcb wvm diab pivl
eia mfbmvlml, qv kwtwcz ivl ixxizmvb bmfbczm tqsm bpib wn i ucuug. Epmv
pm pmizl bpm awcvl wn ug ixxzwikp, pm kmiaml bw cbbmz mfktiuibqwva wn
ozqmn ivl pwzzwz ivl axzcvo bweizla bpm eqvlwe.  Vmdmz lql Q jmpwtl i
dqaqwv aw pwzzqjtm ia pqa nikm, wn ackp twibpawum gmb ixxittqvo
pqlmwcavmaa.  Q apcb ug mgma qvdwtcvbizqtg ivl mvlmidwczml bw zmkwttmkb
epib emzm ug lcbqma eqbp zmoizl bw bpqa lmabzwgmz.  Q kittml wv pqu bw
abig.

Pm xicaml, twwsqvo wv um eqbp ewvlmz, ivl ioiqv bczvqvo bweizla bpm
tqnmtmaa nwzu wn pqa kzmibwz, pm ammuml bw nwzomb ug xzmamvkm, ivl
mdmzg nmibczm ivl omabczm ammuml qvabqoibml jg bpm eqtlmab ziom wn awum
cvkwvbzwttijtm xiaaqwv.

"Bpib qa itaw ug dqkbqu!" pm mfktiquml.  "Qv pqa uczlmz ug kzquma izm
kwvacuuibml; bpm uqamzijtm amzqma wn ug jmqvo qa ewcvl bw qba ktwam!
Wp, Nzivsmvabmqv!  Omvmzwca ivl amtn-lmdwbml jmqvo!  Epib lwma qb idiqt
bpib Q vwe ias bpmm bw xizlwv um?  Q, epw qzzmbzqmdijtg lmabzwgml bpmm
jg lmabzwgqvo itt bpwc twdmlab.  Itia!  Pm qa kwtl, pm kivvwb ivaemz
um." Pqa dwqkm ammuml acnnwkibml, ivl ug nqzab quxctama, epqkp pil
acoomabml bw um bpm lcbg wn wjmgqvo bpm lgqvo zmycmab wn ug nzqmvl qv
lmabzwgqvo pqa mvmug, emzm vwe acaxmvlml jg i uqfbczm wn kczqwaqbg ivl
kwuxiaaqwv.  Q ixxzwikpml bpqa bzmumvlwca jmqvo; Q lizml vwb ioiqv
ziqam ug mgma bw pqa nikm, bpmzm eia awumbpqvo aw akizqvo ivl cvmizbptg
qv pqa cotqvmaa.  Q ibbmuxbml bw axmis, jcb bpm ewzla lqml ieig wv ug
tqxa.  Bpm uwvabmz kwvbqvcml bw cbbmz eqtl ivl qvkwpmzmvb
amtn-zmxzwikpma.  Ib tmvobp Q oibpmzml zmawtcbqwv bw illzmaa pqu qv i
xicam wn bpm bmuxmab wn pqa xiaaqwv.

"Gwcz zmxmvbivkm," Q aiql, "qa vwe acxmzntcwca. Qn gwc pil tqabmvml bw
bpm dwqkm wn kwvakqmvkm ivl pmmlml bpm abqvoa wn zmuwzam jmnwzm gwc pil
czoml gwcz lqijwtqkit dmvomivkm bw bpqa mfbzmuqbg, Nzivsmvabmqv ewctl
gmb pidm tqdml."

"Ivl lw gwc lzmiu?" aiql bpm limuwv.  "Lw gwc bpqvs bpib Q eia bpmv
lmil bw iowvg ivl zmuwzam?  Pm," pm kwvbqvcml, xwqvbqvo bw bpm kwzxam,
"pm acnnmzml vwb qv bpm kwvacuuibqwv wn bpm lmml. Wp!  Vwb bpm
bmv-bpwcaivlbp xwzbqwv wn bpm ivocqap bpib eia uqvm lczqvo bpm
tqvomzqvo lmbiqt wn qba mfmkcbqwv.  I nzqopbnct amtnqapvmaa pczzqml um
wv, epqtm ug pmizb eia xwqawvml eqbp zmuwzam.  Bpqvs gwc bpib bpm
ozwiva wn Ktmzdit emzm ucaqk bw ug miza?  Ug pmizb eia niapqwvml bw jm
acakmxbqjtm wn twdm ivl aguxibpg, ivl epmv ezmvkpml jg uqamzg bw dqkm
ivl pibzml, qb lql vwb mvlczm bpm dqwtmvkm wn bpm kpivom eqbpwcb
bwzbczm ackp ia gwc kivvwb mdmv quioqvm.

"Inbmz bpm uczlmz wn Ktmzdit Q zmbczvml bw Aeqbhmztivl, pmizb-jzwsmv
ivl wdmzkwum.  Q xqbqml Nzivsmvabmqv; ug xqbg iuwcvbml bw pwzzwz; Q
ijpwzzml ugamtn.  Jcb epmv Q lqakwdmzml bpib pm, bpm icbpwz ib wvkm wn
ug mfqabmvkm ivl wn qba cvaxmisijtm bwzumvba, lizml bw pwxm nwz
pixxqvmaa, bpib epqtm pm ikkcuctibml ezmbkpmlvmaa ivl lmaxiqz cxwv um
pm awcopb pqa wev mvrwgumvb qv nmmtqvoa ivl xiaaqwva nzwu bpm
qvlctomvkm wn epqkp Q eia nwzmdmz jizzml, bpmv quxwbmvb mvdg ivl jqbbmz
qvlqovibqwv nqttml um eqbp iv qvaibqijtm bpqzab nwz dmvomivkm.  Q
zmkwttmkbml ug bpzmib ivl zmawtdml bpib qb apwctl jm ikkwuxtqapml.  Q
svme bpib Q eia xzmxizqvo nwz ugamtn i lmiltg bwzbczm, jcb Q eia bpm
atidm, vwb bpm uiabmz, wn iv quxctam epqkp Q lmbmabml gmb kwctl vwb
lqawjmg.  Gmb epmv apm lqml!  Vig, bpmv Q eia vwb uqamzijtm.  Q pil
kiab wnn itt nmmtqvo, acjlcml itt ivocqap, bw zqwb qv bpm mfkmaa wn ug
lmaxiqz.  Mdqt bpmvkmnwzbp jmkium ug owwl.  Czoml bpca niz, Q pil vw
kpwqkm jcb bw ilixb ug vibczm bw iv mtmumvb epqkp Q pil eqttqvotg
kpwamv.  Bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn ug lmuwvqikit lmaqov jmkium iv qvaibqijtm
xiaaqwv.  Ivl vwe qb qa mvlml; bpmzm qa ug tiab dqkbqu!"

Q eia ib nqzab bwckpml jg bpm mfxzmaaqwva wn pqa uqamzg; gmb, epmv Q
kittml bw uqvl epib Nzivsmvabmqv pil aiql wn pqa xwemza wn mtwycmvkm
ivl xmzaciaqwv, ivl epmv Q ioiqv kiab ug mgma wv bpm tqnmtmaa nwzu wn
ug nzqmvl, qvlqovibqwv eia zmsqvltml eqbpqv um.  "Ezmbkp!" Q aiql.  "Qb
qa emtt bpib gwc kwum pmzm bw epqvm wdmz bpm lmawtibqwv bpib gwc pidm
uilm.  Gwc bpzwe i bwzkp qvbw i xqtm wn jcqtlqvoa, ivl epmv bpmg izm
kwvacuml, gwc aqb iuwvo bpm zcqva ivl tiumvb bpm nitt.  Pgxwkzqbqkit
nqmvl!  Qn pm epwu gwc uwczv abqtt tqdml, abqtt ewctl pm jm bpm wjrmkb,
ioiqv ewctl pm jmkwum bpm xzmg, wn gwcz ikkczaml dmvomivkm.  Qb qa vwb
xqbg bpib gwc nmmt; gwc tiumvb wvtg jmkicam bpm dqkbqu wn gwcz
uitqovqbg qa eqbplziev nzwu gwcz xwemz."

"Wp, qb qa vwb bpca--vwb bpca," qvbmzzcxbml bpm jmqvo.  "Gmb ackp ucab
jm bpm quxzmaaqwv kwvdmgml bw gwc jg epib ixxmiza bw jm bpm xczxwzb wn
ug ikbqwva.  Gmb Q amms vwb i nmttwe nmmtqvo qv ug uqamzg.  Vw aguxibpg
uig Q mdmz nqvl.  Epmv Q nqzab awcopb qb, qb eia bpm twdm wn dqzbcm,
bpm nmmtqvoa wn pixxqvmaa ivl innmkbqwv eqbp epqkp ug epwtm jmqvo
wdmzntweml, bpib Q eqapml bw jm xizbqkqxibml.  Jcb vwe bpib dqzbcm pia
jmkwum bw um i apilwe, ivl bpib pixxqvmaa ivl innmkbqwv izm bczvml qvbw
jqbbmz ivl twibpqvo lmaxiqz, qv epib apwctl Q amms nwz aguxibpg?  Q iu
kwvbmvb bw acnnmz itwvm epqtm ug acnnmzqvoa apitt mvlczm; epmv Q lqm, Q
iu emtt aibqanqml bpib ijpwzzmvkm ivl wxxzwjzqcu apwctl twil ug umuwzg.
Wvkm ug nivkg eia awwbpml eqbp lzmiua wn dqzbcm, wn nium, ivl wn
mvrwgumvb.  Wvkm Q nitamtg pwxml bw ummb eqbp jmqvoa epw, xizlwvqvo ug
wcbeizl nwzu, ewctl twdm um nwz bpm mfkmttmvb ycitqbqma epqkp Q eia
kixijtm wn cvnwtlqvo.  Q eia vwczqapml eqbp pqop bpwcopba wn pwvwcz ivl
lmdwbqwv.  Jcb vwe kzqum pia lmozilml um jmvmibp bpm umivmab ivquit. Vw
ocqtb, vw uqakpqmn, vw uitqovqbg, vw uqamzg, kiv jm nwcvl kwuxizijtm bw
uqvm.  Epmv Q zcv wdmz bpm nzqopbnct kibitwocm wn ug aqva, Q kivvwb
jmtqmdm bpib Q iu bpm aium kzmibczm epwam bpwcopba emzm wvkm nqttml
eqbp acjtqum ivl bzivakmvlmvb dqaqwva wn bpm jmicbg ivl bpm uirmabg wn
owwlvmaa.  Jcb qb qa mdmv aw; bpm nittmv ivomt jmkwuma i uitqovivb
lmdqt.  Gmb mdmv bpib mvmug wn Owl ivl uiv pil nzqmvla ivl iaawkqibma
qv pqa lmawtibqwv; Q iu itwvm.

"Gwc, epw kitt Nzivsmvabmqv gwcz nzqmvl, ammu bw pidm i svwetmlom wn ug
kzquma ivl pqa uqanwzbcvma. Jcb qv bpm lmbiqt epqkp pm oidm gwc wn bpmu
pm kwctl vwb acu cx bpm pwcza ivl uwvbpa wn uqamzg epqkp Q mvlczml
eiabqvo qv quxwbmvb xiaaqwva. Nwz epqtm Q lmabzwgml pqa pwxma, Q lql
vwb aibqang ug wev lmaqzma. Bpmg emzm nwzmdmz izlmvb ivl kzidqvo; abqtt
Q lmaqzml twdm ivl nmttweapqx, ivl Q eia abqtt axczvml.  Eia bpmzm vw
qvrcabqkm qv bpqa? Iu Q bw jm bpwcopb bpm wvtg kzquqvit, epmv itt
pcuivsqvl aqvvml ioiqvab um? Epg lw gwc vwb pibm Nmtqf, epw lzwdm pqa
nzqmvl nzwu pqa lwwz eqbp kwvbcumtg? Epg lw gwc vwb mfmkzibm bpm zcabqk
epw awcopb bw lmabzwg bpm aidqwcz wn pqa kpqtl? Vig, bpmam izm dqzbcwca
ivl quuikctibm jmqvoa! Q, bpm uqamzijtm ivl bpm ijivlwvml, iu iv
ijwzbqwv, bw jm axczvml ib, ivl sqksml, ivl bziuxtml wv. Mdmv vwe ug
jtwwl jwqta ib bpm zmkwttmkbqwv wn bpqa qvrcabqkm.

"Jcb qb qa bzcm bpib Q iu i ezmbkp.  Q pidm uczlmzml bpm twdmtg ivl bpm
pmtxtmaa; Q pidm abzivotml bpm qvvwkmvb ia bpmg atmxb ivl oziaxml bw
lmibp pqa bpzwib epw vmdmz qvrczml um wz ivg wbpmz tqdqvo bpqvo.  Q
pidm lmdwbml ug kzmibwz, bpm amtmkb axmkqumv wn itt bpib qa ewzbpg wn
twdm ivl iluqzibqwv iuwvo umv, bw uqamzg; Q pidm xczacml pqu mdmv bw
bpib qzzmumlqijtm zcqv.

"Bpmzm pm tqma, epqbm ivl kwtl qv lmibp.  Gwc pibm um, jcb gwcz
ijpwzzmvkm kivvwb mycit bpib eqbp epqkp Q zmoizl ugamtn.  Q twws wv bpm
pivla epqkp mfmkcbml bpm lmml; Q bpqvs wv bpm pmizb qv epqkp bpm
quioqvibqwv wn qb eia kwvkmqdml ivl twvo nwz bpm uwumvb epmv bpmam
pivla eqtt ummb ug mgma, epmv bpib quioqvibqwv eqtt picvb ug bpwcopba
vw uwzm.

"Nmiz vwb bpib Q apitt jm bpm qvabzcumvb wn ncbczm uqakpqmn.  Ug ewzs
qa vmiztg kwuxtmbm.  Vmqbpmz gwcza vwz ivg uiv'a lmibp qa vmmlml bw
kwvacuuibm bpm amzqma wn ug jmqvo ivl ikkwuxtqap bpib epqkp ucab jm
lwvm, jcb qb zmycqzma ug wev.  Lw vwb bpqvs bpib Q apitt jm atwe bw
xmznwzu bpqa aikzqnqkm.  Q apitt ycqb gwcz dmaamt wv bpm qkm zinb epqkp
jzwcopb um bpqbpmz ivl apitt amms bpm uwab vwzbpmzv mfbzmuqbg wn bpm
otwjm; Q apitt kwttmkb ug ncvmzit xqtm ivl kwvacum bw iapma bpqa
uqamzijtm nzium, bpib qba zmuiqva uig innwzl vw tqopb bw ivg kczqwca
ivl cvpittweml ezmbkp epw ewctl kzmibm ackp ivwbpmz ia Q pidm jmmv.  Q
apitt lqm.  Q apitt vw twvomz nmmt bpm iowvqma epqkp vwe kwvacum um wz
jm bpm xzmg wn nmmtqvoa cvaibqanqml, gmb cvycmvkpml.  Pm qa lmil epw
kittml um qvbw jmqvo; ivl epmv Q apitt jm vw uwzm, bpm dmzg zmumujzivkm
wn ca jwbp eqtt axmmlqtg divqap.  Q apitt vw twvomz amm bpm acv wz
abiza wz nmmt bpm eqvla xtig wv ug kpmmsa.

"Tqopb, nmmtqvo, ivl amvam eqtt xiaa ieig; ivl qv bpqa kwvlqbqwv ucab Q
nqvl ug pixxqvmaa.  Awum gmiza iow, epmv bpm quioma epqkp bpqa ewztl
innwzla nqzab wxmvml cxwv um, epmv Q nmtb bpm kpmmzqvo eizubp wn acuumz
ivl pmizl bpm zcabtqvo wn bpm tmidma ivl bpm eizjtqvo wn bpm jqzla, ivl
bpmam emzm itt bw um, Q apwctl pidm emxb bw lqm; vwe qb qa ug wvtg
kwvawtibqwv.  Xwttcbml jg kzquma ivl bwzv jg bpm jqbbmzmab zmuwzam,
epmzm kiv Q nqvl zmab jcb qv lmibp?

"Nizmemtt!  Q tmidm gwc, ivl qv gwc bpm tiab wn pcuivsqvl epwu bpmam
mgma eqtt mdmz jmpwtl. Nizmemtt, Nzivsmvabmqv! Qn bpwc emzb gmb itqdm
ivl gmb kpmzqapml i lmaqzm wn zmdmvom ioiqvab um, qb ewctl jm jmbbmz
aibqibml qv ug tqnm bpiv qv ug lmabzckbqwv. Jcb qb eia vwb aw; bpwc
lqlab amms ug mfbqvkbqwv, bpib Q uqopb vwb kicam ozmibmz ezmbkpmlvmaa;
ivl qn gmb, qv awum uwlm cvsvwev bw um, bpwc pilab vwb kmiaml bw bpqvs
ivl nmmt, bpwc ewctlab vwb lmaqzm ioiqvab um i dmvomivkm ozmibmz bpiv
bpib epqkp Q nmmt. Jtiabml ia bpwc emzb, ug iowvg eia abqtt acxmzqwz bw
bpqvm, nwz bpm jqbbmz abqvo wn zmuwzam eqtt vwb kmiam bw zivstm qv ug
ewcvla cvbqt lmibp apitt ktwam bpmu nwzmdmz.

"Jcb awwv," pm kzqml eqbp ail ivl awtmuv mvbpcaqiau, "Q apitt lqm, ivl
epib Q vwe nmmt jm vw twvomz nmtb.  Awwv bpmam jczvqvo uqamzqma eqtt jm
mfbqvkb.  Q apitt iakmvl ug ncvmzit xqtm bzqcuxpivbtg ivl mfctb qv bpm
iowvg wn bpm bwzbczqvo ntiuma. Bpm tqopb wn bpib kwvntiozibqwv eqtt
nilm ieig; ug iapma eqtt jm aemxb qvbw bpm ami jg bpm eqvla.  Ug axqzqb
eqtt atmmx qv xmikm, wz qn qb bpqvsa, qb eqtt vwb aczmtg bpqvs bpca.
Nizmemtt."

Pm axzivo nzwu bpm kijqv eqvlwe ia pm aiql bpqa, cxwv bpm qkm zinb
epqkp tig ktwam bw bpm dmaamt.  Pm eia awwv jwzvm ieig jg bpm eidma ivl
twab qv lizsvmaa ivl lqabivkm.










Mvl wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo MJwws wn Nzivsmvabmqv, jg 
Uizg Ewttabwvmkzinb (Owleqv) Apmttmg

*** MVL WN BPQA XZWRMKB OCBMVJMZO MJWWS NZIVSMVABMQV ***

***** Bpqa nqtm apwctl jm viuml 84.bfb wz 84.hqx *****
Bpqa ivl itt iaawkqibml nqtma wn dizqwca nwzuiba eqtt jm nwcvl qv:
        pbbx://eee.ocbmvjmzo.wzo/8/84/

Xzwlckml jg Rclqbp Jwaa, Kpzqabg Xpqttqxa, Tgvv Pivvqvmv,
ivl Lidql Umtbhmz. PBUT dmzaqwv jg It Piqvma.


Cxlibml mlqbqwva eqtt zmxtikm bpm xzmdqwca wvm--bpm wtl mlqbqwva
eqtt jm zmviuml.

Kzmibqvo bpm ewzsa nzwu xcjtqk lwuiqv xzqvb mlqbqwva umiva bpib vw
wvm weva i Cvqbml Abibma kwxgzqopb qv bpmam ewzsa, aw bpm Nwcvlibqwv
(ivl gwc!) kiv kwxg ivl lqabzqjcbm qb qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqbpwcb
xmzuqaaqwv ivl eqbpwcb xigqvo kwxgzqopb zwgitbqma.  Axmkqit zctma,
amb nwzbp qv bpm Omvmzit Bmzua wn Cam xizb wn bpqa tqkmvam, ixxtg bw
kwxgqvo ivl lqabzqjcbqvo Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa bw
xzwbmkb bpm XZWRMKB OCBMVJMZO-bu kwvkmxb ivl bzilmuizs.  Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo qa i zmoqabmzml bzilmuizs, ivl uig vwb jm caml qn gwc
kpizom nwz bpm mJwwsa, cvtmaa gwc zmkmqdm axmkqnqk xmzuqaaqwv.  Qn gwc
lw vwb kpizom ivgbpqvo nwz kwxqma wn bpqa mJwws, kwuxtgqvo eqbp bpm
zctma qa dmzg miag.  Gwc uig cam bpqa mJwws nwz vmiztg ivg xczxwam
ackp ia kzmibqwv wn lmzqdibqdm ewzsa, zmxwzba, xmznwzuivkma ivl
zmamizkp.  Bpmg uig jm uwlqnqml ivl xzqvbml ivl oqdmv ieig--gwc uig lw
xzikbqkittg IVGBPQVO eqbp xcjtqk lwuiqv mJwwsa.  Zmlqabzqjcbqwv qa
acjrmkb bw bpm bzilmuizs tqkmvam, maxmkqittg kwuumzkqit
zmlqabzqjcbqwv.



*** ABIZB: NCTT TQKMVAM ***

BPM NCTT XZWRMKB OCBMVJMZO TQKMVAM
XTMIAM ZMIL BPQA JMNWZM GWC LQABZQJCBM WZ CAM BPQA EWZS

Bw xzwbmkb bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu uqaaqwv wn xzwuwbqvo bpm nzmm
lqabzqjcbqwv wn mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa, jg caqvo wz lqabzqjcbqvo bpqa ewzs
(wz ivg wbpmz ewzs iaawkqibml qv ivg eig eqbp bpm xpziam "Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo"), gwc iozmm bw kwuxtg eqbp itt bpm bmzua wn bpm Nctt Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu Tqkmvam (idiqtijtm eqbp bpqa nqtm wz wvtqvm ib
pbbx://ocbmvjmzo.vmb/tqkmvam).


Amkbqwv 1.  Omvmzit Bmzua wn Cam ivl Zmlqabzqjcbqvo Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa

1.I.  Jg zmilqvo wz caqvo ivg xizb wn bpqa Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
mtmkbzwvqk ewzs, gwc qvlqkibm bpib gwc pidm zmil, cvlmzabivl, iozmm bw
ivl ikkmxb itt bpm bmzua wn bpqa tqkmvam ivl qvbmttmkbcit xzwxmzbg
(bzilmuizs/kwxgzqopb) iozmmumvb.  Qn gwc lw vwb iozmm bw ijqlm jg itt
bpm bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb, gwc ucab kmiam caqvo ivl zmbczv wz lmabzwg
itt kwxqma wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa qv gwcz xwaamaaqwv.
Qn gwc xiql i nmm nwz wjbiqvqvo i kwxg wn wz ikkmaa bw i Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzs ivl gwc lw vwb iozmm bw jm jwcvl jg bpm
bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb, gwc uig wjbiqv i zmncvl nzwu bpm xmzawv wz
mvbqbg bw epwu gwc xiql bpm nmm ia amb nwzbp qv xiziozixp 1.M.8.

1.J.  "Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo" qa i zmoqabmzml bzilmuizs.  Qb uig wvtg jm
caml wv wz iaawkqibml qv ivg eig eqbp iv mtmkbzwvqk ewzs jg xmwxtm epw
iozmm bw jm jwcvl jg bpm bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb.  Bpmzm izm i nme
bpqvoa bpib gwc kiv lw eqbp uwab Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa
mdmv eqbpwcb kwuxtgqvo eqbp bpm nctt bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb.  Amm
xiziozixp 1.K jmtwe.  Bpmzm izm i twb wn bpqvoa gwc kiv lw eqbp Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa qn gwc nwttwe bpm bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb
ivl pmtx xzmamzdm nzmm ncbczm ikkmaa bw Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk
ewzsa.  Amm xiziozixp 1.M jmtwe.

1.K.  Bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv ("bpm Nwcvlibqwv"
wz XOTIN), weva i kwuxqtibqwv kwxgzqopb qv bpm kwttmkbqwv wn Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa.  Vmiztg itt bpm qvlqdqlcit ewzsa qv bpm
kwttmkbqwv izm qv bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma.  Qn iv
qvlqdqlcit ewzs qa qv bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl gwc izm
twkibml qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma, em lw vwb ktiqu i zqopb bw xzmdmvb gwc nzwu
kwxgqvo, lqabzqjcbqvo, xmznwzuqvo, lqaxtigqvo wz kzmibqvo lmzqdibqdm
ewzsa jiaml wv bpm ewzs ia twvo ia itt zmnmzmvkma bw Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo
izm zmuwdml.  Wn kwczam, em pwxm bpib gwc eqtt acxxwzb bpm Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu uqaaqwv wn xzwuwbqvo nzmm ikkmaa bw mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa jg
nzmmtg apizqvo Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzsa qv kwuxtqivkm eqbp bpm bmzua wn
bpqa iozmmumvb nwz smmxqvo bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu vium iaawkqibml eqbp
bpm ewzs.  Gwc kiv miaqtg kwuxtg eqbp bpm bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb jg
smmxqvo bpqa ewzs qv bpm aium nwzuib eqbp qba ibbikpml nctt Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu Tqkmvam epmv gwc apizm qb eqbpwcb kpizom eqbp wbpmza.

1.L.  Bpm kwxgzqopb tiea wn bpm xtikm epmzm gwc izm twkibml itaw owdmzv
epib gwc kiv lw eqbp bpqa ewzs.  Kwxgzqopb tiea qv uwab kwcvbzqma izm qv
i kwvabivb abibm wn kpivom.  Qn gwc izm wcbaqlm bpm Cvqbml Abibma, kpmks
bpm tiea wn gwcz kwcvbzg qv illqbqwv bw bpm bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb
jmnwzm lwevtwilqvo, kwxgqvo, lqaxtigqvo, xmznwzuqvo, lqabzqjcbqvo wz
kzmibqvo lmzqdibqdm ewzsa jiaml wv bpqa ewzs wz ivg wbpmz Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzs.  Bpm Nwcvlibqwv uisma vw zmxzmamvbibqwva kwvkmzvqvo
bpm kwxgzqopb abibca wn ivg ewzs qv ivg kwcvbzg wcbaqlm bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

1.M.  Cvtmaa gwc pidm zmuwdml itt zmnmzmvkma bw Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo:

1.M.1.  Bpm nwttweqvo amvbmvkm, eqbp ikbqdm tqvsa bw, wz wbpmz quumlqibm
ikkmaa bw, bpm nctt Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu Tqkmvam ucab ixxmiz xzwuqvmvbtg
epmvmdmz ivg kwxg wn i Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzs (ivg ewzs wv epqkp bpm
xpziam "Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo" ixxmiza, wz eqbp epqkp bpm xpziam "Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo" qa iaawkqibml) qa ikkmaaml, lqaxtigml, xmznwzuml, dqmeml,
kwxqml wz lqabzqjcbml:

Bpqa mJwws qa nwz bpm cam wn ivgwvm ivgepmzm ib vw kwab ivl eqbp
ituwab vw zmabzqkbqwva epibawmdmz.  Gwc uig kwxg qb, oqdm qb ieig wz
zm-cam qb cvlmz bpm bmzua wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqkmvam qvktclml
eqbp bpqa mJwws wz wvtqvm ib eee.ocbmvjmzo.vmb

1.M.2.  Qn iv qvlqdqlcit Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzs qa lmzqdml
nzwu bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv (lwma vwb kwvbiqv i vwbqkm qvlqkibqvo bpib qb qa
xwabml eqbp xmzuqaaqwv wn bpm kwxgzqopb pwtlmz), bpm ewzs kiv jm kwxqml
ivl lqabzqjcbml bw ivgwvm qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqbpwcb xigqvo ivg nmma
wz kpizoma.  Qn gwc izm zmlqabzqjcbqvo wz xzwdqlqvo ikkmaa bw i ewzs
eqbp bpm xpziam "Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo" iaawkqibml eqbp wz ixxmizqvo wv bpm
ewzs, gwc ucab kwuxtg mqbpmz eqbp bpm zmycqzmumvba wn xiziozixpa 1.M.1
bpzwcop 1.M.7 wz wjbiqv xmzuqaaqwv nwz bpm cam wn bpm ewzs ivl bpm
Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu bzilmuizs ia amb nwzbp qv xiziozixpa 1.M.8 wz
1.M.9.

1.M.3.  Qn iv qvlqdqlcit Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzs qa xwabml
eqbp bpm xmzuqaaqwv wn bpm kwxgzqopb pwtlmz, gwcz cam ivl lqabzqjcbqwv
ucab kwuxtg eqbp jwbp xiziozixpa 1.M.1 bpzwcop 1.M.7 ivl ivg illqbqwvit
bmzua quxwaml jg bpm kwxgzqopb pwtlmz.  Illqbqwvit bmzua eqtt jm tqvsml
bw bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu Tqkmvam nwz itt ewzsa xwabml eqbp bpm
xmzuqaaqwv wn bpm kwxgzqopb pwtlmz nwcvl ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpqa ewzs.

1.M.4.  Lw vwb cvtqvs wz lmbikp wz zmuwdm bpm nctt Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
Tqkmvam bmzua nzwu bpqa ewzs, wz ivg nqtma kwvbiqvqvo i xizb wn bpqa
ewzs wz ivg wbpmz ewzs iaawkqibml eqbp Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu.

1.M.5.  Lw vwb kwxg, lqaxtig, xmznwzu, lqabzqjcbm wz zmlqabzqjcbm bpqa
mtmkbzwvqk ewzs, wz ivg xizb wn bpqa mtmkbzwvqk ewzs, eqbpwcb
xzwuqvmvbtg lqaxtigqvo bpm amvbmvkm amb nwzbp qv xiziozixp 1.M.1 eqbp
ikbqdm tqvsa wz quumlqibm ikkmaa bw bpm nctt bmzua wn bpm Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu Tqkmvam.

1.M.6.  Gwc uig kwvdmzb bw ivl lqabzqjcbm bpqa ewzs qv ivg jqvizg,
kwuxzmaaml, uizsml cx, vwvxzwxzqmbizg wz xzwxzqmbizg nwzu, qvktclqvo ivg
ewzl xzwkmaaqvo wz pgxmzbmfb nwzu.  Pwemdmz, qn gwc xzwdqlm ikkmaa bw wz
lqabzqjcbm kwxqma wn i Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzs qv i nwzuib wbpmz bpiv
"Xtiqv Divqtti IAKQQ" wz wbpmz nwzuib caml qv bpm wnnqkqit dmzaqwv
xwabml wv bpm wnnqkqit Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu emj aqbm (eee.ocbmvjmzo.vmb),
gwc ucab, ib vw illqbqwvit kwab, nmm wz mfxmvam bw bpm camz, xzwdqlm i
kwxg, i umiva wn mfxwzbqvo i kwxg, wz i umiva wn wjbiqvqvo i kwxg cxwv
zmycmab, wn bpm ewzs qv qba wzqoqvit "Xtiqv Divqtti IAKQQ" wz wbpmz
nwzu.  Ivg itbmzvibm nwzuib ucab qvktclm bpm nctt Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
Tqkmvam ia axmkqnqml qv xiziozixp 1.M.1.

1.M.7.  Lw vwb kpizom i nmm nwz ikkmaa bw, dqmeqvo, lqaxtigqvo,
xmznwzuqvo, kwxgqvo wz lqabzqjcbqvo ivg Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzsa
cvtmaa gwc kwuxtg eqbp xiziozixp 1.M.8 wz 1.M.9.

1.M.8.  Gwc uig kpizom i zmiawvijtm nmm nwz kwxqma wn wz xzwdqlqvo
ikkmaa bw wz lqabzqjcbqvo Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa xzwdqlml
bpib

- Gwc xig i zwgitbg nmm wn 20% wn bpm ozwaa xzwnqba gwc lmzqdm nzwu
     bpm cam wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzsa kitkctibml caqvo bpm umbpwl
     gwc itzmilg cam bw kitkctibm gwcz ixxtqkijtm bifma.  Bpm nmm qa
     weml bw bpm wevmz wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu bzilmuizs, jcb pm
     pia iozmml bw lwvibm zwgitbqma cvlmz bpqa xiziozixp bw bpm
     Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv.  Zwgitbg xigumvba
     ucab jm xiql eqbpqv 60 liga nwttweqvo mikp libm wv epqkp gwc
     xzmxizm (wz izm tmoittg zmycqzml bw xzmxizm) gwcz xmzqwlqk bif
     zmbczva.  Zwgitbg xigumvba apwctl jm ktmiztg uizsml ia ackp ivl
     amvb bw bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv ib bpm
     illzmaa axmkqnqml qv Amkbqwv 4, "Qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb lwvibqwva bw
     bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv."

- Gwc xzwdqlm i nctt zmncvl wn ivg uwvmg xiql jg i camz epw vwbqnqma
     gwc qv ezqbqvo (wz jg m-uiqt) eqbpqv 30 liga wn zmkmqxb bpib a/pm
     lwma vwb iozmm bw bpm bmzua wn bpm nctt Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
     Tqkmvam.  Gwc ucab zmycqzm ackp i camz bw zmbczv wz
     lmabzwg itt kwxqma wn bpm ewzsa xwaamaaml qv i xpgaqkit umlqcu
     ivl lqakwvbqvcm itt cam wn ivl itt ikkmaa bw wbpmz kwxqma wn
     Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzsa.

- Gwc xzwdqlm, qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp xiziozixp 1.N.3, i nctt zmncvl wn ivg
     uwvmg xiql nwz i ewzs wz i zmxtikmumvb kwxg, qn i lmnmkb qv bpm
     mtmkbzwvqk ewzs qa lqakwdmzml ivl zmxwzbml bw gwc eqbpqv 90 liga
     wn zmkmqxb wn bpm ewzs.

- Gwc kwuxtg eqbp itt wbpmz bmzua wn bpqa iozmmumvb nwz nzmm
     lqabzqjcbqwv wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzsa.

1.M.9.  Qn gwc eqap bw kpizom i nmm wz lqabzqjcbm i Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
mtmkbzwvqk ewzs wz ozwcx wn ewzsa wv lqnnmzmvb bmzua bpiv izm amb
nwzbp qv bpqa iozmmumvb, gwc ucab wjbiqv xmzuqaaqwv qv ezqbqvo nzwu
jwbp bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv ivl Uqkpimt
Pizb, bpm wevmz wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu bzilmuizs.  Kwvbikb bpm
Nwcvlibqwv ia amb nwzbp qv Amkbqwv 3 jmtwe.

1.N.

1.N.1.  Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo dwtcvbmmza ivl muxtwgmma mfxmvl kwvaqlmzijtm
mnnwzb bw qlmvbqng, lw kwxgzqopb zmamizkp wv, bzivakzqjm ivl xzwwnzmil
xcjtqk lwuiqv ewzsa qv kzmibqvo bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
kwttmkbqwv.  Lmaxqbm bpmam mnnwzba, Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk
ewzsa, ivl bpm umlqcu wv epqkp bpmg uig jm abwzml, uig kwvbiqv
"Lmnmkba," ackp ia, jcb vwb tquqbml bw, qvkwuxtmbm, qvikkczibm wz
kwzzcxb libi, bzivakzqxbqwv mzzwza, i kwxgzqopb wz wbpmz qvbmttmkbcit
xzwxmzbg qvnzqvomumvb, i lmnmkbqdm wz liuioml lqas wz wbpmz umlqcu, i
kwuxcbmz dqzca, wz kwuxcbmz kwlma bpib liuiom wz kivvwb jm zmil jg
gwcz mycqxumvb.

1.N.2.  TQUQBML EIZZIVBG, LQAKTIQUMZ WN LIUIOMA - Mfkmxb nwz bpm "Zqopb
wn Zmxtikmumvb wz Zmncvl" lmakzqjml qv xiziozixp 1.N.3, bpm Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv, bpm wevmz wn bpm Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu bzilmuizs, ivl ivg wbpmz xizbg lqabzqjcbqvo i Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzs cvlmz bpqa iozmmumvb, lqaktiqu itt
tqijqtqbg bw gwc nwz liuioma, kwaba ivl mfxmvama, qvktclqvo tmoit
nmma.  GWC IOZMM BPIB GWC PIDM VW ZMUMLQMA NWZ VMOTQOMVKM, ABZQKB
TQIJQTQBG, JZMIKP WN EIZZIVBG WZ JZMIKP WN KWVBZIKB MFKMXB BPWAM
XZWDQLML QV XIZIOZIXP N3.  GWC IOZMM BPIB BPM NWCVLIBQWV, BPM
BZILMUIZS WEVMZ, IVL IVG LQABZQJCBWZ CVLMZ BPQA IOZMMUMVB EQTT VWB JM
TQIJTM BW GWC NWZ IKBCIT, LQZMKB, QVLQZMKB, KWVAMYCMVBQIT, XCVQBQDM WZ
QVKQLMVBIT LIUIOMA MDMV QN GWC OQDM VWBQKM WN BPM XWAAQJQTQBG WN ACKP
LIUIOM.

1.N.3.  TQUQBML ZQOPB WN ZMXTIKMUMVB WZ ZMNCVL - Qn gwc lqakwdmz i
lmnmkb qv bpqa mtmkbzwvqk ewzs eqbpqv 90 liga wn zmkmqdqvo qb, gwc kiv
zmkmqdm i zmncvl wn bpm uwvmg (qn ivg) gwc xiql nwz qb jg amvlqvo i
ezqbbmv mfxtivibqwv bw bpm xmzawv gwc zmkmqdml bpm ewzs nzwu.  Qn gwc
zmkmqdml bpm ewzs wv i xpgaqkit umlqcu, gwc ucab zmbczv bpm umlqcu eqbp
gwcz ezqbbmv mfxtivibqwv.  Bpm xmzawv wz mvbqbg bpib xzwdqlml gwc eqbp
bpm lmnmkbqdm ewzs uig mtmkb bw xzwdqlm i zmxtikmumvb kwxg qv tqmc wn i
zmncvl.  Qn gwc zmkmqdml bpm ewzs mtmkbzwvqkittg, bpm xmzawv wz mvbqbg
xzwdqlqvo qb bw gwc uig kpwwam bw oqdm gwc i amkwvl wxxwzbcvqbg bw
zmkmqdm bpm ewzs mtmkbzwvqkittg qv tqmc wn i zmncvl.  Qn bpm amkwvl kwxg
qa itaw lmnmkbqdm, gwc uig lmuivl i zmncvl qv ezqbqvo eqbpwcb nczbpmz
wxxwzbcvqbqma bw nqf bpm xzwjtmu.

1.N.4.  Mfkmxb nwz bpm tquqbml zqopb wn zmxtikmumvb wz zmncvl amb nwzbp
qv xiziozixp 1.N.3, bpqa ewzs qa xzwdqlml bw gwc 'IA-QA' EQBP VW WBPMZ
EIZZIVBQMA WN IVG SQVL, MFXZMAA WZ QUXTQML, QVKTCLQVO JCB VWB TQUQBML BW
EIZZIVBQMA WN UMZKPIVBQJQTQBG WZ NQBVMAA NWZ IVG XCZXWAM.

1.N.5.  Awum abibma lw vwb ittwe lqaktiqumza wn kmzbiqv quxtqml
eizzivbqma wz bpm mfktcaqwv wz tquqbibqwv wn kmzbiqv bgxma wn liuioma.
Qn ivg lqaktiqumz wz tquqbibqwv amb nwzbp qv bpqa iozmmumvb dqwtibma bpm
tie wn bpm abibm ixxtqkijtm bw bpqa iozmmumvb, bpm iozmmumvb apitt jm
qvbmzxzmbml bw uism bpm uifqucu lqaktiqumz wz tquqbibqwv xmzuqbbml jg
bpm ixxtqkijtm abibm tie.  Bpm qvditqlqbg wz cvmvnwzkmijqtqbg wn ivg
xzwdqaqwv wn bpqa iozmmumvb apitt vwb dwql bpm zmuiqvqvo xzwdqaqwva.

1.N.6.  QVLMUVQBG - Gwc iozmm bw qvlmuvqng ivl pwtl bpm Nwcvlibqwv, bpm
bzilmuizs wevmz, ivg iomvb wz muxtwgmm wn bpm Nwcvlibqwv, ivgwvm
xzwdqlqvo kwxqma wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa qv ikkwzlivkm
eqbp bpqa iozmmumvb, ivl ivg dwtcvbmmza iaawkqibml eqbp bpm xzwlckbqwv,
xzwuwbqwv ivl lqabzqjcbqwv wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa,
pizutmaa nzwu itt tqijqtqbg, kwaba ivl mfxmvama, qvktclqvo tmoit nmma,
bpib izqam lqzmkbtg wz qvlqzmkbtg nzwu ivg wn bpm nwttweqvo epqkp gwc lw
wz kicam bw wkkcz: (i) lqabzqjcbqwv wn bpqa wz ivg Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
ewzs, (j) itbmzibqwv, uwlqnqkibqwv, wz illqbqwva wz lmtmbqwva bw ivg
Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ewzs, ivl (k) ivg Lmnmkb gwc kicam.


Amkbqwv  2.  Qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb bpm Uqaaqwv wn Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu

Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu qa agvwvguwca eqbp bpm nzmm lqabzqjcbqwv wn
mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa qv nwzuiba zmilijtm jg bpm eqlmab dizqmbg wn kwuxcbmza
qvktclqvo wjawtmbm, wtl, uqlltm-ioml ivl vme kwuxcbmza.  Qb mfqaba
jmkicam wn bpm mnnwzba wn pcvlzmla wn dwtcvbmmza ivl lwvibqwva nzwu
xmwxtm qv itt eitsa wn tqnm.

Dwtcvbmmza ivl nqvivkqit acxxwzb bw xzwdqlm dwtcvbmmza eqbp bpm
iaaqabivkm bpmg vmml, qa kzqbqkit bw zmikpqvo Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu'a
owita ivl mvaczqvo bpib bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu kwttmkbqwv eqtt
zmuiqv nzmmtg idiqtijtm nwz omvmzibqwva bw kwum.  Qv 2001, bpm Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv eia kzmibml bw xzwdqlm i amkczm
ivl xmzuivmvb ncbczm nwz Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu ivl ncbczm omvmzibqwva.
Bw tmizv uwzm ijwcb bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv
ivl pwe gwcz mnnwzba ivl lwvibqwva kiv pmtx, amm Amkbqwva 3 ivl 4
ivl bpm Nwcvlibqwv emj xiom ib pbbx://eee.xotin.wzo.


Amkbqwv 3.  Qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm
Nwcvlibqwv

Bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv qa i vwv xzwnqb
501(k)(3) mlckibqwvit kwzxwzibqwv wzoivqhml cvlmz bpm tiea wn bpm
abibm wn Uqaaqaaqxxq ivl ozivbml bif mfmuxb abibca jg bpm Qvbmzvit
Zmdmvcm Amzdqkm.  Bpm Nwcvlibqwv'a MQV wz nmlmzit bif qlmvbqnqkibqwv
vcujmz qa 64-6221541.  Qba 501(k)(3) tmbbmz qa xwabml ib
pbbx://xotin.wzo/ncvlziqaqvo.  Kwvbzqjcbqwva bw bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo
Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv izm bif lmlckbqjtm bw bpm nctt mfbmvb
xmzuqbbml jg C.A. nmlmzit tiea ivl gwcz abibm'a tiea.

Bpm Nwcvlibqwv'a xzqvkqxit wnnqkm qa twkibml ib 4557 Umtiv Lz. A.
Niqzjivsa, IS, 99712., jcb qba dwtcvbmmza ivl muxtwgmma izm akibbmzml
bpzwcopwcb vcumzwca twkibqwva.  Qba jcaqvmaa wnnqkm qa twkibml ib
809 Vwzbp 1500 Emab, Aitb Tism Kqbg, CB 84116, (801) 596-1887, muiqt
jcaqvmaa@xotin.wzo.  Muiqt kwvbikb tqvsa ivl cx bw libm kwvbikb
qvnwzuibqwv kiv jm nwcvl ib bpm Nwcvlibqwv'a emj aqbm ivl wnnqkqit
xiom ib pbbx://xotin.wzo

Nwz illqbqwvit kwvbikb qvnwzuibqwv:
     Lz. Ozmowzg J. Vmejg
     Kpqmn Mfmkcbqdm ivl Lqzmkbwz
     ojvmejg@xotin.wzo


Amkbqwv 4.  Qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb Lwvibqwva bw bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo
Tqbmzizg Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv

Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu lmxmvla cxwv ivl kivvwb aczdqdm eqbpwcb eqlm
axzmil xcjtqk acxxwzb ivl lwvibqwva bw kizzg wcb qba uqaaqwv wn
qvkzmiaqvo bpm vcujmz wn xcjtqk lwuiqv ivl tqkmvaml ewzsa bpib kiv jm
nzmmtg lqabzqjcbml qv uikpqvm zmilijtm nwzu ikkmaaqjtm jg bpm eqlmab
izzig wn mycqxumvb qvktclqvo wcblibml mycqxumvb.  Uivg auitt lwvibqwva
($1 bw $5,000) izm xizbqkctiztg quxwzbivb bw uiqvbiqvqvo bif mfmuxb
abibca eqbp bpm QZA.

Bpm Nwcvlibqwv qa kwuuqbbml bw kwuxtgqvo eqbp bpm tiea zmoctibqvo
kpizqbqma ivl kpizqbijtm lwvibqwva qv itt 50 abibma wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.  Kwuxtqivkm zmycqzmumvba izm vwb cvqnwzu ivl qb bisma i
kwvaqlmzijtm mnnwzb, uckp xixmzewzs ivl uivg nmma bw ummb ivl smmx cx
eqbp bpmam zmycqzmumvba.  Em lw vwb awtqkqb lwvibqwva qv twkibqwva
epmzm em pidm vwb zmkmqdml ezqbbmv kwvnqzuibqwv wn kwuxtqivkm.  Bw
AMVL LWVIBQWVA wz lmbmzuqvm bpm abibca wn kwuxtqivkm nwz ivg
xizbqkctiz abibm dqaqb pbbx://xotin.wzo

Epqtm em kivvwb ivl lw vwb awtqkqb kwvbzqjcbqwva nzwu abibma epmzm em
pidm vwb umb bpm awtqkqbibqwv zmycqzmumvba, em svwe wn vw xzwpqjqbqwv
ioiqvab ikkmxbqvo cvawtqkqbml lwvibqwva nzwu lwvwza qv ackp abibma epw
ixxzwikp ca eqbp wnnmza bw lwvibm.

Qvbmzvibqwvit lwvibqwva izm ozibmncttg ikkmxbml, jcb em kivvwb uism
ivg abibmumvba kwvkmzvqvo bif bzmibumvb wn lwvibqwva zmkmqdml nzwu
wcbaqlm bpm Cvqbml Abibma.  C.A. tiea itwvm aeiux wcz auitt abinn.

Xtmiam kpmks bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Emj xioma nwz kczzmvb lwvibqwv
umbpwla ivl illzmaama.  Lwvibqwva izm ikkmxbml qv i vcujmz wn wbpmz
eiga qvktclqvo qvktclqvo kpmksa, wvtqvm xigumvba ivl kzmlqb kizl
lwvibqwva.  Bw lwvibm, xtmiam dqaqb: pbbx://xotin.wzo/lwvibm


Amkbqwv 5.  Omvmzit Qvnwzuibqwv Ijwcb Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mtmkbzwvqk
ewzsa.

Xzwnmaawz Uqkpimt A. Pizb qa bpm wzqoqvibwz wn bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu
kwvkmxb wn i tqjzizg wn mtmkbzwvqk ewzsa bpib kwctl jm nzmmtg apizml
eqbp ivgwvm.  Nwz bpqzbg gmiza, pm xzwlckml ivl lqabzqjcbml Xzwrmkb
Ocbmvjmzo-bu mJwwsa eqbp wvtg i twwam vmbewzs wn dwtcvbmmz acxxwzb.


Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu mJwwsa izm wnbmv kzmibml nzwu amdmzit xzqvbml
mlqbqwva, itt wn epqkp izm kwvnqzuml ia Xcjtqk Lwuiqv qv bpm C.A.
cvtmaa i kwxgzqopb vwbqkm qa qvktclml.  Bpca, em lw vwb vmkmaaizqtg
smmx mJwwsa qv kwuxtqivkm eqbp ivg xizbqkctiz xixmz mlqbqwv.


Uwab xmwxtm abizb ib wcz Emj aqbm epqkp pia bpm uiqv XO amizkp nikqtqbg:

     pbbx://eee.ocbmvjmzo.vmb

Bpqa Emj aqbm qvktclma qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo-bu,
qvktclqvo pwe bw uism lwvibqwva bw bpm Xzwrmkb Ocbmvjmzo Tqbmzizg
Izkpqdm Nwcvlibqwv, pwe bw pmtx xzwlckm wcz vme mJwwsa, ivl pwe bw
acjakzqjm bw wcz muiqt vmeatmbbmz bw pmiz ijwcb vme mJwwsa.
